i think we could import the old comments via rsync, but from there we need to go via email. I think it is easier than caching the status on each bug and than import bits here and there
it would be very easy to keep a hash db of message-ids ,sounds good
ok,perhaps we can ship an ad-hoc apt_prefereces
version?
thanks
not yet.it is covered by your insurance?
yes,but it's really not the right time :/,with a changing house upcoming in 3 weeks
you will be moving into your house soon?,posted a message recently which explains what to do if the autoconfiguration does not do what you expect
how urgent is #896?
not particularly urgent, but a policy violation
i agree that we should kill the -novtswitch
ok
would you consider a package split a feature?
context?
splitting xfonts* out of xfree86*. one upload for the rest of the life and that's it
splitting the source package you mean?
yes. same binary packages.
I would prefer to avoid it at this stage.  this is something that has gone into XSF svn, I assume?
basically each xfree86 upload will NOT force users to upgrade 100Mb of fonts for nothing,no something i did in my spare time.
it would be nice, but stability is more important that convenience now that we are in feature freeze
if i do it and it works.. would you accept it?
I would really prefer not to change the packaging in that way when we are so close to release; the benefit to users of the Warty release is practically nil
ok.. it will wait hoary and daniels packages :P,i will send you lamont complains on each X upload ... ;),anyway.. i was kidding before.. it's fine by me.
if you do, ping him about changing mine as well :-)
i am afraid we will have to ask one or two more questions if hw autodetection tools aren't available
which tools?
xresprobe, discover and so on
xresprobe is called in postinst, is it not?  you could depend on it
no no that's not the problem,hmmm,otherwise if the install happens in one shot it's not gonna work,as soon as we will have people.n-n-y.com :-),good catch...
while you are talking here?  either you use a speech-to-text device, or you fold the underwear with your mouth :-)
that's what i do.. dreaming about what could be inside... (NB: i am folding only my gf underwear ;)).can we consider updating pciutils from sid?,there are 2 things that i really care about.
it seems to conflict with our alsa-utils
ok.. i will only sync the pci.ids
hmm, actually hotplug doesn't parse the output,well if nothing else parses the output, it is not very risky to change
the output doesn't change.
X ubuntu12 just asked me which driver, though I have discover1 installed,yeah, it's already in bugzilla,if it's not there, please report it
i will check in a sec...,i found the reason why you were getting that strange resolution/virtual desktop problem,no go for me. mail on the way
have you tested the 2.6.8.1. kernel?
yes, both from d-i and upgrading from kernel-image. on i386 is a GO for me
from d-i?  I didn't realize that was possible
also.. i found a way to build the nvidia kernel without the running kernel. i might package all the stuff and test restricted tomorrow or so,yes. netboot
oh, excellent. thanks for testing it
no problem :-)
would an earlier time work better for you tomorrow?
changing non-free to restricted and contrib to universe will kill all the translation....
mark doesn't want to ask any questions
i am not going to ask any question
so this is only for the 'expert' install?
but instead of reinventing the wheel, we can just pre-seed the debconf questions we have so that an expert user (that will have DEBCONF_PRI=low) can see the question and decide by himself,correct.does it look ok for you?
I would say "This software is free, and while it is not a part of Ubuntu, standard Ubuntu tools can be used to install it",otherwise, looks good
yes.. that's correct. i am going to add the nvidia bits only.
hmm, my uxterm colours (for ls and such) are now different in unstable,works fine for me
elmo: ubuntu13 will add security.nny.com if the archive is reachable, otherwise it will add it commented out
sounds good.is there any reason not to do the same for main?
yes. main and cdrom are supposed to be the same
the cdrom only has desktop+ship,oh, you are saying you did it already
i think that's more than enough.. also.. people that wants more, usually knows what to look for,security is enabled automatically if you are connected to the network, otherwise it is added but commented.
right. but what about warty/main?
but not for main/restricted/universe,main/restriced are enabled automatically on netinstalls,but not on cdrom,i don't think we should do that,because that stage happens before the install,today's crack didn't ask me for a CD and everything was copied in cache,so you might end up downloading stuff from the net because it's "newer" than CD.
did you hear from herbert, btw?
yes. he will come back to me in one or two days,that's what i was expecting,but he said that the new packages will be ready in 1/2 days,i didn't push any further because i don't know exactly the releation with Xu
re: "so you might end up downloading stuff from the net because it's "newer" than CD.", the same is true of security,if we update things in Warty, it is for good reason, and they should supersede what is on obsolete CDs,granted, the user could be behind a modem, so we may not want to install them immediately
sorry but i don't completly agree
but when the user does their first upgrade, they should certainly receive the updates.what is the basis of your objection?
modem is one reason, the other one is that we want to be able to install from cdrom 100%. If we enable stuff around is going to be bad
 but when the user does their first upgrade, they should certainly receive the updates
i am dealing to push security updates as "mandatory" but not all the rest,if they want updates they will have to uncomments the lines.
the net result is that cdrom installs do not get access to additional supported software by default, and that is wrong
perhaps they don't want to update from us,i understand what you mean, but at that point a user that wants more, will know what to do,in the beginning Mark said: "There is only cdrom installation"
a Debian user, yes
sabdfl: switching apt lines after the install means creating another hook for base-config or a deep modification to apt-setup...
yes, but then it's all deleted afterward
can you approve the sync for freenet6?
didn't I?
i don't see any answer in my inbox .so what is the consensum about apt lines?
my feeling is that security and warty-via-network should be treated the same
ok.. i will see how complex it is to do something cool..,but i would like a general consensum before implementing the changes
Mark and I agree that supported should be made available if there is a network, even if we are doing a CD install
ok... fine by me.. i will do the changes today.do we agree to keep universe out?,or better.. commented out
I think so, yes
should we recompile all the packages for v10 or go for v12?
as I said in the bug, I think many packages can't use v12 because of the licensing,that is what sarge is doing
yeah i read that...
so if we go for v10 we can perhaps sync packages from Debian
if the list of packages is that one in the bug i will take care of them tomorrow
great
hmmmm i am not sure that's a good idea...,i think it's easier to just change dependency and rebuild,i hate you :P
what was it?
something that was not cleaned/reinstalled correctly,i also left something for you in the source package
for me? you shouldn't have
README-for-security-teams_or_to-update-the-nvidia-driver,ehheheh,just a few notes of what to check for security updates or driver update,you got an email :-).did you have the time to check that autoconfig problem?,hoo good catch...
autoconfig problem?
the LCD screen bug,good night,i am afraid xresprobe is still seriously borked
it is working fine for me.where does the /etc/X11/X symlink point?
considering that he is using xserver-xfree86 it should point to /usr/X11R6/bin/Xfree86 or something like that,i think he is at the uni
hmm?
even via sudo?,i am doing a few changes to X to simplify debugging,daniels told me you asked him to do so...
he said I asked him to do what exactly?
to make the postinst easier to debug...,like adding a XRESPROBE_DEBUG
daniels: here?
on which arch did the test fail?
amd64,let me know if you need more info or a test
i think the fix is simple.can you tell if that one work as expected?
it would do the right thing for me
that's correct,i don't remember all the reasons behind it. This is old code from Overfiend,i know that for instance sparc needs FB,jdub: can i upload X later today? i am going with this FB fix and a couple of cosmetic fixes to the FAQ from trunk
yes, the FB fix is critical for preview
thanks,oky
what are you going to do about #929?
daniels and i are working on backporting the nv driver from x.org,neither do i.. check the BTS. there are at least 3 or 4 reports related to the same problem,X is up
thanks, i will test on my amd64 system in the morning
thanks! in any case it should work,since it uses more sane defaults
daniels: do you guys have an idea of the nature of the bug?
there are 2 known problems. one with the hardware mouse and one with the screen getting blank,i can see the changes to the mouse stuff, but i am not sure what can cause the screen blanking.,the latter is "hope that will fix",i am pretty sure i can get people to test the new driver before uploading,since i can create a binary only and ask people to test it,so let's see,it was posted on d-d.,pub  4096R/AB2A91F5 2004-08-20 James Troup <james@nocrew.org>
thanks
np :-)
the problem I had is fixed
thom is having the same problem you had with xresprobe..how did you debug it? mind to tell him?
which one?
the LCD detection at install time,the nv driver is going good btw.. 3 tester = 3 success,but yeah.. it will never make it for tomorrow,yes. exactly as your,probing on i810 when X run = BAD BAD BAD
yes, I know, but if the check is broken, it could cause the probe not to run at all
if it runs once X is installed ...,it smells more the problem you had,than the check in xresprobe,ah
night
netinstall from today... gdm hasn't been installed
grep gdm /var/log/base-config.log?,apt-cache show gdm | grep Task
the grep shows that the package has been downloaded
but never unpacked? very strange!.there were no failures from aptitude?
nope
send me a copy of your base-config.log please
task ubuntu-desktop,ok,mail on the way,i am trying again with my local mirror.. just to be a bit faster
as Kamion asked, does it help to run aptitude -y install '~tubuntu-desktop' now?
but apparently everything was o,yes.. it does..
does it install anything other than gdm?
it installed some stuff, when i executed again aptitude with task ubuntu-desktop it was asking to download another bunch of packages,that's weird.. if i install from my local mirror it works fine
is it possible that a download failed or something?
i did check.. nothing in the logs,this time the installation went fine from archive...,perhaps it was only a lunar ray hitting the console cable during a solar eclypse,i am on it right now
thom, Kamion: i386 success?
it is still going,it's not really on the fastest box in the world,you should keep an eye on the load of the server :-)=,i386 is burning here,almost....still around?
yes
sounder@ i did place the sources for x ubuntu19 on people, if you can kinldy build the amd64 and ppc ,ok.,if can put up the build before you go to sleep is perfectly fine for me
ok
did you build the nv driver on amd64?
no, I haven't yet,I forgot in my sleeplessness
:-))),no big deal,i386 reports 4/5 success. the 1 missing is a small glitch that i think i know how to solve.do you mind a test build on ppc too?
no problem.where is the source again?.do we support radeon R300 with the xfree86 driver?.where is the source you want me to build for nv?.can you remove the +s on the channel?.that hides it from the channel list, right?
no. i am not an op here,yes that's correct
no one is; how do we fix it?
who registered the channel...,i don't remember who was,probably Keybuk ,not sure.. they have some 64 bits binaries,but no idea for what they are exactly
any reason not to include them in the package?
not that i am aware of, but i cannot test them at all. So i had rather prefer if someone with amd64 + nvidia could that.,specially for the userland stuff like libs and so on.,otherwise ship me your amd64 ;)
I can test the functionality, but if you could take care of the packaging, that would be great
not sure about the time... i am still working on the nv free driver,and the script to switch from free to non-free
I'm fairly certain that would be illegal
i am not 100% sure...,there were some oracle versions that you could download for free (at least sometime ago),yes,KeyserSoze is getting the same problem on all jre.. but i need you to check if it is a local problem or not.can you give it a shot please?


I'm not suggesting all - only the ones you modify.
ok, it sounds like you're agreeing with me, then,though rather than "the ones we modify", my idea is "the ones we need to merge"
oh? oops.
0.4
oh there are a couple of wep patches post 0.7 you'll want as well.,I'm in the same boat as keybuk.
around?,ipw2200 0.7 isn't working for me, while 0.4 did
yo.are you interested in sleep-problems on my laptops?
not for warty I'm not :-)
say when, and I'll start filing them. I've two different laptops here that don't.
bug please
k.,our ssl certificate on bugzilla needs refreshing
sure
what component for bugzilla bugs ? / website bugs ?,don't update to ipw2200 0.8 just yet,ping
pong
pong ping
?
I felt we were talking ineffectively on bugzilla, about CVS, so was going to have a quick interactive talk about it,and figure out what-else info or help I should give on it.
it sounds like the problem and solution are fairly clear
great
but unless you say otherwise, it's a low priority at the moment, because we have worse bugs, and you have a solid workaround
low priority,is completely appropriate.,thanks


afternoon all,not entirely related to warty, but if grub-install takes 5 minutes to install, is this a sign that i should just retry the install :)
here 
you might want to know that thinice in warty is buggy compared to that in sid
and apparently GNOME is suddently almost perfect (out of the thinice problem), nobody report bugs :-P.I don't get your question, where do you want to paste ?
can i file the panel not linking to eds? :)
are you using alt ? or the windows key ?,wait for the gnome-themes, component will be added
i just restarted X and now nautilus won't show the desktop :(,hal isn't starting :(
do you think we have any interest to have hal support turned on in gnome-vfs at this point ? It increases the sources of problems for no real benefit imho ...
is it a known bug that g-s-t doesn't know what distribution its running on?.are there any changes to desktop-file-utils you've got hidden away?
somebody should really kick that guy *hard*,I've added a build-dep on libxt-dev in warty for zenity
arse. xt-dev? i added libx11-dev.so just libxt-dev or libxt and libx11?,for future note, the xmodmap line in that X sticky-super fixes the problem for me
we have planned to speak about menu organisation during the 2 weeks,I need we don't need to force it.?
was away, you said ?,nope
the warty repository,ok, fine. Thanks,nice to get packages update every 30min instead once a day, isn't it :)
you'll be glad to know i've fixed my missing arrows in thinice bug
I've uploaded the gnome-vfs without hal support should be available rsn
should g2 in ubuntu do the magic dont-focus-window tricks?,join the gang, get an x-series thinkpad,sj has hung on my box, again..what is monday mornings discussion actually about?
we'll have a BOF about this.so you're coming tomorrow ?
i'll upgrade my evo, rebuild, and then mail you the deb
hum, I don't have a SVN tree from alioth here, time to get this I guess :),yeah, my brain is seriously damaged after a full week of english
haha
apt-show-versions ? Or I don't understand the question
my record. 40 minutes of uptime and hald has locked
hum, be carefull when you come, thom is getting mad apparently :),I did the new one in warty for ncb :p
good news is that my hald bug might be a kernel bug
from where are you coming ? London ?
i'm ok up to oxford train station
the browser mode is fixed in warty :p
off
why off ? just curious
gimp doesn't do the mime magic in warty. should i file a bug?,nautilus thumbnailing is borked in ubuntu.,get a decent laptop
plug my laptop off if you want.have you seen this bug http://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=148028 ?,intel ? .have you tried the nautilus sendto extension ?,your "patches" blog entry is funny :).which package ?
i finally find someone who can replicate and help debug the leak, and the ubuntu packages are newer than sid :)
why do you "rm -fr docs/reference/html" and --enable-gtk-doc in loudmouth instead of using the html doc ?
they used to be out of date
where was the problem ?
cupsLangDefault() returns a pointer which wasn't freed
and that makes a such leak ?
many bytes every 5 seconds,could you update ubuntu's librsvg? i believe there is a new upstream
sure,[   ]  LATEST-IS-2.7.2       .again ?.#259740 this one ?,yes, basically jdub is waiting on new evolution, and I was hopping to get Kitame's packages soon to spare some work :p
the panel seems to be very eager to remove the Run Application... entry at the smallest change
yes, I've noticed that too, need to look on it
hopefully this will fix my hal problems,has gnome-cups-manager in ubuntu been behaving itself? i need to upgrade the one in sid
there is a problem with gksudo we have noticed some days ago, the current testing version already uses gksudo ?,https://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1142,dunno, but my apt is "[Waiting for headers] "
how about turning on the gnome/xrdb magic in ubuntu?
yeah. when/where did you talk about this for sarge ?
on d-g-g iirc, or maybe just the irc channel
no problem here
so my ipod appears as sda2, i can unmount it but to unplug it i need to eject it... can this be added to the context menu or will the HAL stuff fix that,eds appears to be broken for me... the clock applet is hanging
oh ? since when ?
very recently. i'm going to logout/in
ok, there is no package change ... so probably an eds bug
hm, eds is okay. i think clock_applet hung
killing the applets help ? :)
i didn't notice clock_applet still running until i'd restarted gnome ,remember to think about me where desktop = $HOME :)
that's why I need to do some hack,in the other case ~/Desktop was fine
I LOVE YOU DUDE
:).gst-xine ?,gstreamer+xine in a same package ? :),yes, there is a bug report about it,http://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1407 <- ok with sg loaded ... so where is the bug ? :),you should use alt instead of meta, meta keeps broking apparently :)
interesting,grub-install worked with / being ext3, failed when it was xfs,i thought d-i installed the relevant kernel for your machine. i have a p4 and its installed the 386 kernel,holy crap a lot of stuff gets installed by default :),YOU ARE INSTALLING VIM ON A BOX OF MINE,;)
more like osx than debian ;),we have a selection of python modules available for great justice (and python development)
2.8 is fixing them iirc
pong,vino will be in.enjoying ubuntu?
told me to come here,suggested thursday as a good day to come
we froze versions a while back :).you coming today or thursday?,we're considering shifting it,yay.enjoying ubuntu?,usplash!
thats the one
so i saw your email with the mockup at the airport, but it hasn't appeared now that i've pulled my mail :|
i've got a better one now too, give me a minute.we've got rh9 installed on most desktops. you want me to look at up2date, right?
aha! no, the gui thingy,it's more wizardy,so the first page is okayish,we can do a whole load better on the second page (icons, translated descriptions),but that's the kind of thing i was thinking about,(a single big treeview would get very scary, very quickly).sure it's not a hurricane?
i think experimental is getting 2.8 too,let him work on #1217 :)
we call it 'universe' ;),haha,ooh, totally
i want it on in sarge too but nobody else agrees
i fully endorse this suggestion </quimby>.how did your reinstall go?
cool. got some notes, will mail soon,hopefully G2.10's pdf will work fine,you love being release bitch, admit it,haha,and embedded
javur is embedded. up my ar--
the java i do runs on desktops, i deal with the embedded assembler. oh what fun.,i think the default theme should be sandy crack
NO MORE BONG
dammit i'll propose it for g2.10 then!.any reason why inkscape isn't part of the default install if gimp is?,and please consider syncing with inkscape 0.39 :)
inkscape is much harder to use,it's for a more specialised category of users
oh i dunno. vicky can use inkscape but struggles more with gimp :)
haw haw ;)
stomp stomp stomp,good man :),could i ask for a qemu sync from sid? new upstream and all


and because Python gives Mark a woody
i'm not sure if we're meant to talk about that publically yet.
and I thought we were a "pants off" kind of company ... :p,you need new glasses
mono 1.0? dude, that's going to be a barrel of laughs for totally non-release related reasons during hoary.read bryan clark's entry about NetworkManager?
there was an accompanying IRC conversation to that one <g>.explain ?,I guess you could ship the new png in the debian/ directory and copy them over in your rules
but debian/ is also part of diff.gz...,you can fix this for the common people, dude! multiple tarballs in source!
NOTWARTY, HTH, HAND, KTHXBYE <g>,everyone else had their macs stolen, so can't really comment,that picture of you is a classic
which?,the best feature of the new imac is that the old imacs are going to be cheaper!.ooh, can you add that to the wiki?
k..you getting two-weeks-to-release edginess?,http://descent.netsplit.com/~scott/kids.mp3 -- but for releases,I played with an x300 about the time I bought my new laptop, it didn't feel solid at all
which series is yours again?.nc8000?,mmm
you have my sympathy,I'm trying to *find* the definition I wrote
it'd be on Glossary,i know i wrote one there
I'm trying to find the one with mdz's l33t dot madness,that would be a pretty good look for you :p.bandwidth bills?
i'm reverting the wifi change; i don't think the bars are the right thing, but they're better than the current one.,ooh, that'd be rad
not about waiting?  clearly you haven't tried to read a site that's just made slashdot?
(i thought someone was going to make a joke about .au bandwidth...),especially not if you're using screen ;)
not to mention packing it back up in disgust and sending it back
and they'll say, "grandpoppy, we do that every day when our computer boots gentoo 3000"
I'm a strange XFS user ... I've never had a problem with it,be careful with it, it'll break!.what's your naming scheme?
there's a subtle difference between 'hard to spell' and 'norwegian'
he uses pwgen to invent them,it does kinda capture how people think though,7 bugs ... 14 hours ... ya know, that's not bad :p,yes, and lets you keyword-search on the plus bit
haha, rad
why me, specifically? :p,it's only worth the effort if they get rid of dodgy custom rendering and use pango.gaim is probably work syncing?
seb's already on it.
Garrett's Firefox Industrial theme is sweet!  Can we ship with it?  Can we?  Can we? :p
i don't really want to put it on the critical path,but we can integrate our icons into it and put it up for warty users,and then fold it into hoary.reading d-d-l?
no?
about-me dialogue, applets discussion (hal, etc), applets for dynamic device mount/unmount, etc. :)
I'll have to catch up tomorrow after engineer's installed new router,Uploaders ... the maintainer is the mailing list,you gave up garnome?!
something's gotta give ;),paul's been kicking arse
heh, I've moved over completely now
this one will be a tv ;-),unfortunately, my firewall is a mipsel, and i have three sparcs
never bothered with them, I just debootstrap'd a chroot to work in
ahr,oh yeah, that's a dumb bug
yeah, the dialog spams settings into gconf even if you change nothing *sigh*.which is the "supported" FTP server?
web developer using apache/database every now and then,they're limited, but they do exist,that's right - but that takes into account the fact that it's done :),(choice is not relevant here)
*sigh* that's yet another example of the gconf voodoo going astray then,so, why can't I drag contacts into notes -- and notes onto calendar events and tasks, etc.,yeah, that button should be under "Font Preferences" and not hidden under "Details"
i've toyed with the idea of that view being the primary font preferences window, with the other bits as a bar at the top or something.dude, what was the ATAPI incantation for cdrecord?
how the hell should I know?  I don't even own a CD *player* :p,I blame you.  You're ruining his health
though we try to keep the user interface similar on the whole, which may change in 3.x :)
did you read (silly question) the lead article in GNOME Journal?
yeah, sums up a lot of the feelings among the core hackes.
and they haven't been smoking the same crack as the gstreamer and metacity teams :p


OOo should be there and installed by default, yes,use UNKNOWN in cases where a bug component doesn't exist,uh? every British keyboard I've used is pc105
for me, orinoco_cs is loaded my the pcmcia layer
oh, you mean all of this is just plugdev?
the plugdev group and all admin tools expecting sudo to work are the first two major issues i can see
sourcing the bash completion script slows down starting a shell by a good second for me :(
there is that :/
interestingly, though, ntpdate runs before pcmcia
urgh :)
oh, this is the "we must install exactly the same set of packages on every system!" thing,I keep meaning to jump up and down on mdz and jdub's heads until they relent in the case of pcmcia-cs :)
surely that can be detected at install time :)
yes, and debian-installer does so, but we have explicitly overridden this by policy,which I think is wrong in the PCMCIA case
ditto
not yet


edd will turn up here soon too, btw
should we rename this chan #gnome-hackers ? :).around ?.what's going on about desktop files ?.around ?.directly ?
ross is here
you need to go out of the sleepy mode dude.gnomedb should be 1.1.x since it's a GNOME part, right ?
not a high priority part, no,yeah, preferably (it's stable, 1.1 isn't)
I read the list, no need to send me the mails too :)
:P
have time to talk about the applets ?.should I change the default browser to firefox ?
let's make sure we're on the same page as mdz :)
did you send your mail about the menu changes or not yet ? If yes I've not received it ...
no, slept ;)
what do you think about gtetrinet in the desktop with a launcher in the default panel ? :)
then we defer to "does jdub use it?" after the "does seb use it?" rule
yeah :-P.new package of what ?
gnome-pilot and friends
I'm supposed to package new version of gnome-pilot ?
well, it's not strictly in the gnome list, but older versions won't work with evo1.5 8),sorry, i'll make sure we define this properly during hoary,perhaps even via a gnome seed, so we can see all the depends and so on :-)
no problem, if some stuff are not updated but should be, just let me know,because your first was not changing that and you said you'll removed the advanced part so we don't care
mmm, i think it should be invisible (at the moment), but there's a bit of a difference between the src and the installed package ;)
apparently one more "I changed the .desktop instead of .desktop.in" ....
:),that jdub is a bit of a twit :),but you accepted his patch! ;),hrm
what ?
every now and then, the 'run application...' entry appears or disappears in the applications menu
I've mailed trashapplet's maintainer sunday and still no news ... 
debian or upstream?,(was the non-patches change to gnome-applets ok, considering it was just new files under debian/ and a change to debian/rules?)
yes, for this one only the changelog entry was bad :p
8)
here ?.where have you made your changes for the applets ?
under debian/
I've your changelog entry .... I swear I've not changed the debian dir
does it include the wireless padding patch?
do you still have the changes ? :)
yeah
sorry for nucking your changes :p
"it won't matter anymore when we have hct",another option is doing some laptop-detect foo and choosing a different default panel profile.you going to do an evo update, or wait to sync with debian?,just wondering when to do evolution-exchange :)
around ?
around.gnome-games-extra-data -> do we really want this in desktop?
for the dicts size, you're just interested by the package size, not the installed size, right ?.here ?
yeah,don't depend on suede-icons though
why ?,we got 2 reports in one day because of "paper icons"
status on new evo bits?,yaaaaay evo! :)
I'm going to upload nautilus with the Documents place (check on startup and gconf key) for the moment
ok, thanks :)
hey,about ~/Documents ... when/where should we create it ? We said nautilus some times ago, but I'm not sure here or skel,so what are we doing ? Just let me know if I need to make some hack in nautilus for this
not for the moment
have you tested the Documents place on the desktop ?
wait for matt to get back
still the same problem, one week to make changes, lot to do, blablabla .. the sooner the better if we need to make changes :)
yeah ;)
I'm quoting the upstream NEWS file :p,any progress on the menus plan ? :)
:-),no string changes :0,sent
thanks,are you going to put the current evolution-exchange in Debian soon ? Some guys were asking yesterday ...,I think
i've sent jbailey some updates,hooray for the menu :),oh man,seriously arse string change bug.do you like the wifi/battery disabled icons?,i was playing with the mixer applet earlier, and thinking i must be stupid trying to read the code,and later on, BBB blogged about rewriting it because the code was so horrific ;)
no feedback for the moment, I hope than the profile selection (desktop/laptop) for the panel works
oh yeah, meant to say that was meant for gnome-session first startup rather than install 8),but it's fine for now :)
have you seen the problem with nautilus and vfat drives ? All the files are +x, so nautilus just try to run them and silently fails, so nothing happens
haven't seen that,but i can imagine that not too many people test-- hrm; of course they do -> cameras,dude, they're calling you satan. let's steal their pants.
!!,what's missing on the desktop plan before facing the 2.8 tarball releases ? :),dude you've not replied to my question some hours ago :)
what was that?
<seb128> jdub: what's missing on the desktop plan before facing the 2.8 tarball releases ? :)
will send a mail tonight
I'm working on a panel upload to fix some strings, update translation and add the trashapplet again,ok, thanks
oh, while you're there, can you make the clock applet run 'gksudo time-admin'?,(warning: it checks the path before displaying the menu item)
the path ?
it checks to see if the program is in the path, so unfortunately, we can't just change the 'time-admin' string to 'gksudo time-admin' :-)
morning.gnome-open http://www.google.com works ?.apparently ... fresh install ?
fixed by unb0rking preferred applications :),i'll do firefox/ephy
I'll do the change in panel 2.8 when it'll be out
ok,ugh.you need any help hassling people?.once you've done the gnome updates, are you going to have time for #1214 and #1188?
no, I open bug report and they fix it usually ... but the html are often forgotten,I don't understand for 1214, I've had a quick look, the netstatus applet has a gksudo patch and the patch is applied,I'll check in details after 2.8 packaging yes
man, don't worry about it,i'm an idiot
and for 1188 I didn't get the mail with the patch ...I've asked to Nathaniel to attach it to the bug report, I'll review it once it's attached
that was filed due to the effects of #1206 ;-),ok, thanks!
I'll start evo-2.0 packaging in about 2 hours
sweeeeeeeet,oh, preferred applications refers to evolution-1.5. i can fix that though.,hrm, i'll find that evo bug and mark it critical for you,ah, ok,indeed - i'll bug them for that
I'm going to build panel 2.8 ... the about ubuntu should point to what ?.website ? local file ?
http://home.ubuntu.com/,we'll fix up local stuff before final
here ?,I'll upload evolution 2.0 in about 20 min, be ready to update webcal and connector :)
you can't do those? :),would be good if you could add them to your run
if you want, but I don't want to hijack your packages :p
dude, this is ubuntu, they're all ours :).in the Evolution Mail menu entry, did you make it run 'evolution-2.0 --component=mail' ?
hum no, it just starts evolution ,ok, I'l upload a 0ubuntu2 
the --component=mail bit would be extra cool :),nup, sorry about that 8),control-center on its way
ok.we have not fixed the ~/Documents creation issue ?
hrrrr, i thought that was fixed.,confer with mdz. seems an /etc/skel fix would be safer.
grrrr, they have not included evolution-2.0 in the default-application capplets for cc 2.8
gar,we have random crackass icons appearing in the applications menu on update again :|.you know that old bug when file browser and netwrk would appear in the applications menu after new desktop files had been installed?,btw, nautilus and libgnome uploads happening in a minute
hum yes, already got that ... but not for some times.is that on a fresh install ?,don't say you have written bad changelog again with changes of the debian dir ? :p
haha, no :)
dude, are you removing desktop icons ?
um.,maaaaaybe.,8)
gnome guys are going to release a gnome-terminal 2.8 ?.the lists archives don't work ?
looking into it
are we going to have list archive soon ? lucas_ want to send a news about the preview with a link to the announce :),<andred> Anything Jeff Waught is involved with has to be good. (seen on #gnome-debian)
haha. crack.
thanks for the archives, that works now :)
wait a sec,don't link yet
the url is going to change ?
http://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-announce/2004-September/000000.html
thanks.GNOME bugs should be fixed, or just red lines in bugzilla ?
bugs should be proposed for raising to critical/blocker status,then they need upload confirmation from mdz or myself,same as before
arg,I've uploaded a gnome-themes with smooth in depends to get it into warty ...
yeah, saw those, totally fine :),we might loosen those rules a bit when matt and i sync up
would be nice to be allowed to fix GNOME bugs without asking :p
ok, i'll chat to matt about it ;),only in matt's space, but not officially,those are old
ok, people keep asking and I was not sure
*cry* :)
you don't even tested your "Desktop" as folder dude !
i did!,and the firefox default change - gar!
it doesn't work ...,if I put "Desktop" in the key here I got the same error as in 13198,you use a jdub's version of epiphany which Desktop support ? :p.do we want to hack epiphany to get downloads on the desktop ?
yes please.why doesn't the preference work?
need to add a special case Desktop ...
oh, yucky,he's saying that he doesn't have evidence to suggest that you're lame, not that he truly believes that you are not lame,so i suggest we kick some butt!
please comment on #1266 and #1319 
done,both approved,rad fixes :)
thanks :).do you think I should send the "Desktop" patch for epiphany upstream ?
yeah, i don't know why that's not their default,btw, hal patch from alex on hal list you might be interested in
BTW, n-c-b 2.8.1 out too that fixes some issues (a crasher) ... I guess we want it ?
yes, gnome point release updates are fine,we'll tighten down on those later
gaim 1.0 is out ... fixes some severe encoding breakage in current warty version. Perhaps we want to consider it ?
yes, i think we need to consider it as part of the desktop/gnome updates
should I mail you+Matt ?
yes please
totem 0.99.16, rhythmbox 0.8.6 and gtk+2.4.10 out ... are we interested by one of them ?
if you can file bugs for matt and i mentioning the bugfixes they include, that would be great
ok.what about eagle-usb ?
kinda waiting for matt to chime in on that.he is?.bug#?
no bug, I mailed ubuntu-devel.do we have a module in bugzilla to ask for new packages inclusion ?
no,ok,openoffice + mime system -> eeek!.what can we do about that?
why eeek ?
nothing works
^^,hum, so that should work
nup
which is the mime type of the .pps file ?
that fixes it.want me to file a bug?
yes please
some crack from universe ;)
yeah ...,depending if we speak about warty or hoary ;)
oh yeah, good point
we have glib/gtk+ 2.5.4 in hoary, that's a feature :p
haha,actually, type-ahead-find in lists, and the '/' behaviour in the file-chooser are pretty good gtk+ 2.5 features ;)
yeah, but the type-ahead is kind of weird in some apps ... ie: in gossip it only finds online contacts,/apps/nautilus-cd-burner/debug
heh,maintains them for ubuntu
oh, gaim 1.1.4 just uploaded in debian, I'll take this one :)
the X keyboard layout debconf thing should give gb as an example for england as i can never remember what the code is
that's going to die MUAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHAHA!*cough*splutter*
so, what is HCT?
the Hypothetical Changeset Tool; I'll explain it after lunch if you want
 and this is why i turn on skip break
I had it on, but I was skipping breaks too much
you might as well set up a bot which every 5 minutes says "that is shared footprint" in all irc channels you are in
it's sad people need telling <g>
though my evo2 does have a 23M heap atm,he probably uses xp on it


and because Python gives Mark a woody
I thought it gave him a warty
watch out, it probably makes all your files writable or something.warty base ... has that not been set with priorities?
debootstrap.do you think we need ACPI fan module support in d-i?,certainly some nCipher people are a bit worried about the whole thing ...
yeah, we've been making far too many "feature" changes too close to the release
AIUI we've fixed the really broken bits
they end up getting *used* for things
whoa, that's a stupid idea
huh?  it uses it by default?
dude, LANG=en_GB.UTF-8 gnome-terminal starts up a terminal in en_GB
What is the "Run command as a login shell" option set to?
I started one, then immediately in that terminal ran 'LANG=en_GB.UTF-8 gnome-terminal'. it did not work properly.
I thought that was Mithrandir's.characters from bad sifi?
cities from mostly-bad fantasy
nice...,had an interesting conversation with Vidar about that re: dpkg in debian
October 13th,it's the parted c/h/s issue on 2.6
?
bug #1566, see parted changelog
ouch :-/
somebody earlier noted http://portal.suse.com/sdb/en/2004/05/fhassel_windows_not_booting91.html
his partition table looks intact
I don't know what the failure mode looks like; I don't think it's "total pile of cheese" or anything,feel the powerbook love
feel the lack of pcmcia slot pain
only on 12" for tiny-laptop freaks
size queen
absolutely.tasks work precisely *because* they don't have status :-) Have you never seen the hundreds of people who come to debian-user saying "I tried to remove xterm and it wants to remove x-window-system; why is my whole X being removed?"?,by the way the default debconf priority in warty is high, not critical
but then when things get added to a task, you don't get them
true, it's hard to get both properties,oh yes, if you remove a single package you lose your property anyway, it's really fragile
I think that property is more desirable than "I upgraded to hoary and didn't get $FOO"
sounds easier to have aptitude/synaptic automatically install new packages in tasks you have installed
it's quite a shock that current kernels don't seem to like the nc4010, given Linus owns one,jdub ,jdub's only referring to GNOME there,panel depended on the later e-d-s
ah yes, that was it
NL isn't it?
is it? ok,'init u'
thanks a lot!
you're welcome
hm, I'm still seeing the gnome "/dev/pmu permission" thing, wasn't it supposed to be fixed a while back?
no, the bug's still open I'm afraid
ah, dang,oooh
it's not just locking, visudo validates the file,changing the gnome-session splash screen is tediously hard,nothing that involves gconf-editor can possibly be described as easy
well, it's something you can easily explain, at least
everybody has been talking about discoverability for everything else; why shouldn't it apply here too?
hmmm,I'm logged in if you can't be arsed
trying to do it now
wait until the spambots arrive.doesn't the installer explain the sudo thing?
yes
is there a plan for a packages.d.o equivalent?
yes,s/expert/custom/ please
hrm, good point, I should just avoid apostrophe's completely
*slap*,ramdisk.,anna/choose_modules=archive-copier was from a very old mail of mine and doesn't apply any more; in any case, it did the exact opposite of what was being requested,the correct modern advice is archive-copier/copy=false
ah, oops, sorry; I couldn't remember the exact option so I googled
well, it's possible there's a bug with respect to his chipset
sure, which is a bug like I suggested earlier :),oh yeah, good point
there's a better way
oh, pimp
desktop, not base ...,oh, right, didn't see that,the warty installer is supposed to work with 32MB
that's a lot of precious cd space
we already effectively have to reserve that space, because the powerpc CD has to have three kernels on it
oooh, right.pmac, power4 and power5?
The Shuttleworth Foundation
hm, how come madison isn't showing the binaries?
not built
oh
gcc-4.0> also C++ ABI transition, which is major pain
do you know about this problem ?
no
we should have a http entry in the defaut sources.list ?,trashapplet doesn't work at all for you ? .could you add ~/Documents and ~/.Trash to the default skel ?
are we going to merge gdm 2.6.0.4-1 from Debian?,I need some of the adjustments it made to LANG handling,(I'm happy to merge just that one change though, and can do that now)
hum. the debian d-i business card (rc1) for ppc is known to have some problems in the base packages ?,oups :p
what's your failure?,scroll up,there's another approach,after "loading installer components from CD" and before the base installation, edit /var/lib/dpkg/info/base-installer.postinst,look for "linux-image", and you'll find two lines like this,change them to this:,cron error from processall,ok, that's now bug #270528; #270465 "never existed".
working daily ? :)
dunno yet
unset LANGUAGE && LANG=en_GB.UTF-8 gnome-terminal ?,LANGUAGE is read before LANG IIRC
bash_completion is very slow to load for me
how slow ?
about a second,which is pretty painful at the rate I fire up new shells
I've no problem with it here, but ok, if that's slow, I'll just keep activating on my boxes :)
isn't fixing poor English grammar like that just a matter of unfuzzying translations?
patches are welcome :p
heh, like I have time at the moment ... :-)
and you think I have more time ? :)
FYI, the pmu error message is different now (has been for a little while),it says "Permissions on the file /dev/pmu are broken",I can't easily get to bugzilla right now, but maybe that helps you to grep
the point is that nothing depends on evolution1.5 basically.have you seen the .be guys getting .de keymap bugs ?
if it's reproducible in a console, feel free to assign it to me,AFAIK same rules as before preview still apply ...
hum, just mail me if you want,I'll follow the mail on the internal list,yes
gnome-settings-daemon is working!
Kamion has fixed it
everything still has .menu files, right? so installing the menu package and some hackery can get the Debian menu back?
no, we need a gnome-panel code change for this
ah, suck
the issue is "we should add .desktop file for the apps which need it"
= all packages providng user-runnable programs?
that's a sensible question. We don't want to reacreate the mess of the debian menu ...,so not easy to know which app has its place in the menu or not :)
hehe, right.can we just get debian to include the desktop files and then get menu items for free in ubuntu?
that's the plan,that's not a bug, new gnomevfs conflicts with old panel


?,in fact jdub said him that today was a good day to come
k,the entire menu? nice :D
that's a sub-menu of Applications dude :)
heh, if I didn't have enough with gtk and nautilus for "big uploads I need to do", I just did abiword to complete the set :),yeah, still :)
yes, I've seen that,but I've not seen the nautilus one.do you need some help for the uploads ?
I guess I can manage, but if I haven't done them by tomorrow at 17:00 I guess you could do one of gtk or nautilus
ok, just let me know
what's wrong with the suspend bit?
what ?,do you know how to apply a patch to openoffice package in a proper way ? :)
I'm leaving this stupid place in 1 minute,or #debian-oo
ok,we don't have any GNOME soft good for this
I know, I wanted to see if there's a void in Warty for that.,fwiw, in Lliurex we're sticking to eroaster for now, even if it sucks a bit..hmm, what mailing list is that?
mail from Mark on the sounder list,that should be in the sounder mail you got.here ?,2 things.still here ?,!!
bah, my post to sounder got stuck because I didn't use the correct from..was the po file ok?
is the ca translation ok in the panel ? .the ca translation is ok ?
sure, sorry,ping
pong ?


not too long then,check if my house is on fire on the way through -- it's by the trainline on the way out
we need depends in init scripts :p
bonjour, a va?
trs bien merci :) Et toi ? On parle franais aujourd'hui ? :),yeah schemas in /etc is a bad idea, will be fixed but not for warty
oi, bitch! :p,weird, needed to nuke ~/.gnome2/session to get my icons and cursor theme again
have you kept the faulty one ?
/usr/share/control-center-2.0/capplets/vino-properties.desktop has Icon=gnome-remote-desktop.png
have you started the session with gdm ?
gtkhtml3.2 conflicts with gtkhtml3.1,are you really sure you've fixed the gnome-settings-daemon problem?  nautilus is currently refusing to respond to a background change notification
which problem ?
well, nautilus wasn't reacting to any changes in the background (from the properties) dialog until it was killed and respawned
it was supposed to be fixed ?
and I can't change icon theme either ... nothing happens when I change the selection
yeah, the theme manager is fucked sometimes. I've already talked with some redhat guys about this, they have the problem too but no real idea of the problem,control-center has virtually no upstream for some months now ...
yeah, I don't think your canonical.com is working
but I get ACCEPTED mail
yeah, too late for gnome upstream; we could still include it though :),yeah


oh, random point ... we're listed as FieldWave Ltd here
Thanks. That's actually rather useful to know :)
#?,Sub-process /usr/bin/dpkg returned an error code (1)


on yer bike!.not even for gdmflexiserver xnest loving?,that is intentional. :-)
no dude, i mean the white paper ones.
... oh?!
turns out i preserved /home,rather then starting completely over.
what do you think about adding current gnome-bluetooth foo to universe?
vaguely shaky, as i didn't even upload it to sid...
hrm,let's just play with it in hoary instead :)
makes sense. i don't want reviews to call it "dreadful" like extremetech called ephy :)
dude, stop slagging off our weather.  british weather is fun, it keeps you on your toes :),dude, you went home!
dude, yex,you're going to love it :)
it's not clear from your emails etc. whether it's ok to talk in public about this?
yeah,we'd kinda like to keep it quiet ;),i've updated the FAQ page on the wiki
Can you sort me out a wiki account?
for warty?
Built against unstable, so ought to work fine in warty,It's in http://www.codon.org.uk/~mjg59/tmp/
building,works here
Rock
just looked at 1280x800 screen from 800x600 screen ;).didn't seem to start the session when i turned it on in the prefs dialogue?
It won't."Head beekeeper"?,You'll be following up to rms's foundation-list post, then? :)
yes
Dude, you entirely overstate my antagonism towards fellow humans
when we get consistent/configurable device naming and mount points,you could symlink .ssh/id_dsa and .gnupg to /media/secure-ring
Yeah, but that doesn't automount the encrypted partition
not yet,but <handwave> it will,'cept for polypaudio :),wack.dasher?
Yeah,I love guessing time!,16,000,000.Less than 16,000,000?
yes. spank.
Dude, you are so a month ago,I wish to transfer my spanking,You're getting married soon. You're not allowed to fantasise about service.
you've been inhaling the magic blue smoke, haven't you?
Dude, I told you not to tell people that it's magic
dude?
you just click UserPreferences and create one ...
I can't access the wiki at all - it throws http auth at me
unless nat gets distracted by something shinier <g>
Thankfully, it's mostly trow working on it,lspci from you as well, please
http://www.netsplit.com/text/nc4010.html
Ah! It's an ATI chipset.
yah, it's a Radeon
ATI motherboard chipset as well, though
I don't believe APT does support rsync
I think I was thinking of ssh
heh :),Kinnison just called me -- apparently, inspiration has struck regarding grub-install and XFS.can you call him?


hey dieman, good to see you
nice to see you too.
there's a pkg-diff tool ...,yeah,daily/current/,30/40-some gig
yikes,i might just rsync the 'current' dirs
that makes more sense,eventually you'll probably just want to take /releases/,yes, a direct copy,cool
is discover1-data sync'ed with sid?.in ubuntu?
not quite, it's fairly close but I do have some work to do there
ok,i just resynced my local copy at work for my woody boxes
any way you can get me lspci / lspci -n output?
no,usb only :|
boot with console=ttyS0 IIRC
yay, a shell!,i can get you a /proc/bus/pci/devices
that'll do
ok, whats your email, or put it into bugzilla?
cjwatson@canonical.com,bugzilla probably better though
wtf!? IRQ 185?!
wow
ok,i'll pop it off to that email,i'll probally install it here and then just do a lspci instead,and make one bugzilla bug for i915 support, if thats ok
fine
yeah, because it needs an addtional line for tg3 too.,hopefully this tg3 doesn't need firmware,btw, it loaded fine when i booted, its just the installer thats broken.would the dailies be fixed then?
which defaults? it depends ...
im interested in how the 'anna/choose_modules=archive-copier' mentioned in a earlier sounder release is set
you mean the translation of kernel boot parameters to debconf answers?,rootskel/src/sbin/env2debconf
oh, is the archive-copier thing done from the boot cd via a kernel boot param? :)
I made it be selected by default by putting it in /.disk/udeb_include on the CD
ok
which is an anna-specific hack
bascially, im looking into how im going to preseed d-i here.  most likely going to have someone put in the network info manually and then have it interrogate a cgi script for the data,i've implemented a cgi script to do so for autoinstall, so porting it for d-i will be a simple matter. :)
preseeding is unlikely to work too well in warty at the moment I'm afraid,if it's a priority for you, give us a shout
is there a good list of ubuntu specific answers or are they all under the 'ubuntu/' tree?,ahh, now that im reading through how preseed came to be it looks like joeyh did all of it in like the last two months :|,poke,thanks for trying :)
worth a go, oh well, will have it for hoary
are you going to be resyncing d-i pretty quick after warty?
right,not looking forward to the merge :),it's probably easier for us to just build usb-discover with a current discover1-data, I think that should do it
ahh, i didn't know thats what it does, I didn't lookat the pckage,ive got another lspci to send you
mmmkay
can you guys just make the splash image use alternatives?.so another package can provide it and update-alternatives can be used?
not up to me :(.hm, I think I lost your request to add a mirror to the web site; could you mail it to me?
i put it on the wiki.you around?,oh, n/m,i'm not looking in the right place
hmm,im going to have to compare our packages list to the seeds.,and figure out whats left over
ooh, please post to the mailing list when you do
sure
just working out how we can make an easy to use list of all our supported packages for you to compare against -> easier than comparing with the seeds ;),we basically disable discover
ahh, ok
haha :) oops
btw, metaverse was a great idea, i'm impressed with it so far.,or whatever this non-free stuff in ubuntu thing is :)


so how does laptop-detect work?
with some nasty sed and grep,get off the train, walk to taxi, say "the oxford hotel"
sounds easy. oxford only has one station i presume
yep,the big signs saying canonical will probably be a clue :-)
i might call you when i get there to find someone i know :)
that's a feature,learn to count :-),shame about it's author
the no-armed frenchman you mean? i just package it,actually, there is probably still RossCode in it ,i'm still waiting for the patch
pffft
thought i've nearly got quality sorted!
cool :-).hrm, care to file a bug to remove ephy web bookmarks for us, too?.does it work correctly in debian? do you not get any events at all when you plug it in post boot?
dude, its 11 and you've just had breakfast. get up earlier you slacker
i've been up since 8 :-)
http://www.advogato.org/person/alex/diary.html?start=10. per-user apache daemons... 
heh, nice,preforking with no modules loaded, 2M is about right,jdub hates,if your install isn't recent, you need to add 'restricted' to your apt sources
thanks,fool, you should have got some sleep
yay :-),ooh, lovely
the Amazing Two Ross' I think you'll find


did robot101 left already?`
yeah, yesterday,have fun, and congrats
i would love to know that...,can you do a test for me if you can? but you will have to exit X.???
yes, it's 105. most everything that isn't US is 105 aiui,s/until/as long as/
thanks :-),no idea...,fresh install of crack of the day: gdm login -> "can't access ACPI bla bla bla",you don't want to be me...,ah, it happened to you too? (the gdm start)...,for the resolution too low, we need to change xresprobe.,X doesn't guess or scale anything. It just accept xresprobe output as-is
it's the old thing - i get 1280x1024 added to the end of the line, but this is an lcd monitor, and that's the native res
yes. i remember that... we need to change xresprobe to not sort resolutions.did you report gdm not starting on a fresh install?
no, will do
i can do it.. don't worry.gdm?
base-config, i guess
no. it's gdm init script,base-config calls gdm restart, but the init script dies on stop (probably because gdm is not running and the lsd^Hb stuff doesn't like it),thanks,i am checking again gdm if we can make restart | reload)
reload doesn't do anything useful if it's not running/
what about makeing the init script slightly more clever.. so that reload will start gdm if it is not running, and let base-config call reload?
seems reasonable to me,i'll test and do
ok.. otherwise i can do it..
*shrug*
i just finished with freenet6.. so i got a bit of spare time...,ok.can you apply the itaglish / english filter?,there is another small problem.. base-config calls all the possible display managers with restart
you have the belly for it :L-)
true ...
rofl
ain't my fault if you live in the wrong country ;)
heh,no, didn't work
oh,danke
see #1148-1150
erh... what should i do about it?
is there any more info you need?
as many as possible. logs, strace, all the info about the autodetection and so on.. lspci -n,but it's not critical
i wouldn't mind one ;-)
they have been there for ages ;)
yeah, i just couldn't find it
ehhehe
rock on, congratulation
yeah!.arch?.what arch?
x86
xresprobe <driver> ?,ok
^
ETA for info on 1218?
assuming 1218 is the apache bug, 1300UTC,if it's X, then no, not unless nick's update the bug
it's X :-),no... just fix the bios :-)
if i did that, i would have changed the bios about 10 times yesterday
why? i can still push f12 and boot via network
shouldn't you be making nvidia magically work
i am.. i am doing the last build right now,i committed 587K of stuff already.. i doubt list masters will like it :)
no, no. the non-free module. so i can click my fingers and a computer miles away will just work
yeah.. one at a time :-) first the free driver ,find: /proc/acpi/battery: No such file or directory,latest cd install on i386
file a bug to remind me, please
yes will do,1249,no more perl crap thanks :-),are you sure that's the correct key? the 0x is different
you're slow :-)
sorry.. i am still having some BDSM with X.. you know
i think you enjoy that too much
oh yeah.. i love when Xfree86 spanks me :P,at least that's not a X XKB problem ;)
hrm, it's not where i thought you pulled them from
ehehhe,you have my phone number if the world will start to fall down ;)


damn, your french is good, better than my english ... we should talk french here :),yeah, I know that feeling :p
what, your french sucking? ,that sounds reasonable,^,dude
what ?
fresh install. gedit appears to be http handler again
same problem, gconf key for enable off ?
yeah,both http and https have command and enabled set to <no value>
LC_ALL=C HOME=/root GCONF_CONFIG_SOURCE=`gconftool-2 --get-default-source` gconftool-2 --makefile-install-rule /usr/share/gconf/schemas/desktop_gnome_url_handlers.schemas && killall gconfd-2 and then look at the key again helps ?,oups, s#/usr/share/#/etc/#
same
very weird.could you check the schema file, the <default>true</default> value ?
i don't have a .gconf/desktop/gnome/url-handlers/http/ 
if you have not changed any value that's normal,~/.gconf is for user settings, ie: if you change from default values,for the schema value yes.and the enable one ?
yeah
thinking about it ....any way to strace -e open ?
to add to the fun, the preffered-applications app segfaults
have you straced it ?
strace _what_?
gconftool-2 -R ....could you try to register the schema in C locale ?,doing a new today's iso installation right now with your locale ...
once you experience the power of real english, you'll never want to leave :-)
ok, not for today, I can't get a warty installed for 2 days now,will try with next iso
fixed gconf yet? :-)
doing a sounder 8 installation right now,no way to get a system installed with daily iso in 2 previous days,FYI I've the gconf problem on a fresh install with en_GB,always dpkg -i package before uploading at least
(the sad thing is, i did. then i redid the patch and didn't bother). gar.
ah ah :p
i don't appear to have the "write to cd" option in nautilus for .iso files atm
file file.iso ?
tmp/warty-amd64.iso: ISO 9660 CD-ROM filesystem data 'Ubuntu 4.10 amd64 Bin-1        ' (bootable)
http://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=145956
ok, that iso bug is weird. when i first open the home folder, it shows me the iso artwork correctly. as soon as i double click the icon, nautilus changes the icon to a standard gnome-foot
that's because the first view is based on extensions
uh, evolution1.5 Conflicts: evolution-data-server (>= 0.0.100) but 1.0.0-0ubuntu1 is to be installed
I've uploaded e-d-s and evolution 2.0 in the same time,you're lucky dude :p


we have reached the string freeze IIRC.warty or debian ?,ok,we have not moved the schemas in warty,no idea,they should never change,me ? no,but I don't package evolution :),and I want the new evolution1.5 release packaged,new fileselector in this one
yeah, it looks nice too :0
sorry, I've not had time to look on your patch yet, but I don't forget it, don't worry
Its ok, I'll do the changes, just keep working,I'm waiting for the new pmount as well,sorry, my bad,I think we may roll back that patch anyway
no problem, don't worry,what's a "pretty initscript" ? (ie: what are you changing in the script ?)
all output in all initscripts is being change to use the output functions from /lib/lsb/init-functions,actually, I've secretly encoded picures of beautiful women into the initscript code ;)
cool :),that's industrial icon theme
they take up most of my screen,and I'm running at 1600x1200
ok, so that not. i've the feeling that industrial icon are like 1.5 bigger here, but not taking most of the screen
https://bugzilla.no-name-yet.com/attachment.cgi?id=34&action=edit,the menu looks great
thanks,Jeff was supposed to check all the branding stuff and let we know ...
ok, I just noticed it last night, just wanted to make sure it was brought up
-S ?
yes -S
where do you look to see than translation are screwed ?
doing a debdiff between the packages,you should see it in the diff I sent you
as said yesterday I never got the mail
argh,ok, I'll do that now,the attachment should be on the bug now
hi there,please mail the sounders list -> we should really look at that
I do not really want subscribing to YAML. I added a note in the wiki earlier today
yeah, so hopefully we'll be shipping gpdf by default in Hoary, with mozilla plugin goodness.
is it in gnome 2.8? I haven't seen it yet
she doesn't get to until I get home.,gnome USB palm.  config.
what's the problem?
probably user error.,and then if there's a "setting up your USB palm with evolution" howto-for-the-clueless, that'd be wonderful..
hrm, dunno
someone's blog, I imagine?
mmm, gnome dude from perth,btw,
heh.you likely to be around in about 7-8 hours?
hrm,probably 8)
gonna pick your brain on USB pilot stuff then...  you've been warned. :-)
ping
yo
i forget.why isn't offlineimap building in universe?
there are about 20-30 packages that have that issue (in universe)
ping?,lamont: 
phone or internet?
internet
that's why I have the throttled mirror...
is gcc-opt packaged?
certainly.  But it's not in warty,that's my expectation, given the lack of push to make it otherwise...,glutton!
or sucker, depending on your POV :),failures to uploader would be totally rad
pb is that the uploader's email isn't necessarily available at the point that I'm looking at the log.
elmo, Kamion: did you guys get my process mails?.did you get my mail about archive process?
yeah - and it was To: elmo, so I was going to let him answer it.. :-).so what's the debugging artwork picture of?.is there any building/etc that happens between gnome-release and ubuntu-release?
it's mostly in the can, i haven't really gone through gnome stuff yet.are you really comfortable with the postfix changes you made?,you can do it!
I hope so.  There is precedent....did you and Mark finalize the '.' vs '-' debate?
i wasn't involved in that one
we're not going to get in trouble with the gnome release manager for having the bits there 40 hours early??? :-)
heh, rawhide has everything already too,'sall on the gnome ftp server ;)
are we staging uploads during the preview->release timeframe?  (warty-updates vs warty for the upload??)
check with mdz on that one
so did we upload _everything_ in the last 2 days?? :-),ubuntu-artwork isn't debugging anymore???  Gonna have to go grab that.
hrm, are your uploads getting critical/blocker bugs and confirmations from matt?
umm...
see sounder list
any particular subject to dig for?,my bad.  was still operating on the '>=major' line of things.,and mdz did say "ship it" for dvd+rw-tools.... :-)
cool.so, does uploading without orig files make life difficult?,ping.ping?
btw, is the live CD expected to not configure the network????
dunno
nam as in vietnam?.still the debugging artwork?
no, non-debugging temporary artowkr,see the text on the wiki.who are we going to smack?
anyone who uploads packages during the preview->release timeframe without blessings from god.,it's an administrative problem, not a technical one...
where god is mdz, and me his archangel?
if you're keeping score: xresprobe_0.4.7 gnome-themes_2.8.0-0ubuntu2 kdenetwork_4:3.2.2-1ubuntu2 kdebase_4:3.2.2-1ubuntu2 cuyo_1.8.3-4ubuntu1
unconfirmed? :)
the last 3 met criteria from last night..you wanna review the patch for xchat?
bug#?
1299 (and 1314 while I'm there...)
nothing more than a one liner for 1314
3 lines, one of them blank. :-)
heh, ok, i'll approve ;)
knife practice, of course.
ping
yo
hey, did you end up fixing the weird python depends problems stopping things like offlineimap being built?
depended on the package - we fixed the individual packages by adding the Build-Dep
aha,bum
got a package in particular?
offlineimap,pretty popular, on the supported list for hoary, etc.
me investigates
thanks
offlineimap and 22 others are so blocked.  I'll upload offlineimap shortly (meets criteria), and look at the rest in a bit.
awesome, thanks,(would be a bit sucky to have python foo not working ;)
1333 - should be a trivial fix in debian/config. GAH!,offlineimap build-depends svn (yeah, sick, I know) - I'll have to look at it more after I get back home from running my daughter's school stuff to her...  sihg,offlineimap uploaded.
can you check those out and add comments?
initscripts prettying.,less work for me if we (now, probably not later...) if I just do -7ubuntu3,468 updated
just gave approve comment
if source shows up in the warty archive, and someone pokes me, I'll make it happen.,maybe we should create kernel-image packages that do nothing but Depend on the linux-image package... :-)
heh
(et al): in evo, my wife clicks on a URL in the message (which conveniently says click to open when you mouse over it), and no browser window opens...
what does desktop preferences > preferred applications say?
turns out that installing mozilla-firefox fixed the problem... :-_
hrm. :)
as it should/must,if I want to install on just one partition instead of the whole disk, can I do that with custom, or must I go to expert>
you can do that in custom, just choose 'partition manually'
and then can I tell custom to install desktop? :-)
no, custom just installs base,it's exactly the same as the normal install, but it only installs base
better yet, if you have ubuntu and debian packages in your sources.list, and the same version exists in both repositories, you'll fetch one or the other randomly, with potentially interesting results.
yeah,"[breakage is]  all part of using a system like deb"
100% agreement here.  dpkg does very strong dependency management, and the folks who find that annoying tend to be the people who think it's perfectly normal to fight with a system for days to make it right..if you do things right to start with, then it flows nicely, eh?
how long does OOo take to build on the i386 buildds?
from the stupid questions department...
sound card?,do you have a cd player that does digital reading? (ripping for playing),i think there's an xmms plugin that does it
OK.  something to have her try tomorrow (and yes, that's why it matters...)
:),harsh
isos downloading, eta an hour and change
you might just get to it before lamont's winona does, then ;-),hrm, those are the "gdm/x did not start" dialogues,utf-8 problems with dialog
finally looked at the ITX box... had the driver 'apm' scribbled in the X config...,changing that to 'via' and kicking gdm helped a lot
aha, good stuff,please check if a new dpkg-reconfigure --priority=high xserver-xfree86 works
running dpkg-reconfigure --priority=high xserver-xfree86 post-update certainly didn't hurt anything.  looks like it dropped a hsync and vsync lines but otherwise left the via line alone.  I'll be happy to reinstall this machine on the next CD snapshot to make sure.
you're not getting interrogated about the local politics, are you?
nah, I'm hiding in the back of the room with my 'puter listening today...,sudo with timeout is even more annoying...,of course, it depends on which timeout we're talking about,jdude!.flumotion in Debian is a "not yet", right?
yeah, still experimenting with the best way of doing the packages,current ubuntu packages are quick hack and insecure ;)
could have used it this weekend.  will let you live, though...  ;-),I'm streaming audio from xdevconf, badly,no worries, plan A failed and so I volunteered to be plan B.  using gnomemeeting through a conf bridge with a decent codec... way better than nothing.


yo dude
dude
'sup?
been fun watching the .us and .au swimmers duke it out in the Olympic swim meet...
heh
see you next week?
oh, auug, right. rock.,just drop me an email, or call +61 403 505 896
I arrive Tuesday morning your time, depart Fri morning, will be staying at the Duxton
... three days?
short visit this time, my daughter is participating in a state-level violin competition a week from tomorrow, I want to be home for that.
oh wow, sounds cool,yo dude
dude
dude!
I'm in a conf room at the Duxton through Fri morning...
oh, rad. sadly, i'm a bit over an hour out of town - want to catch up for lunch or dinner one day?
I'm supposed to be hosting a bof over lunch today, not sure what's on this evening or lunch tomorrow, conf dinner tomorrow night, then I'm gone by mid-morning on Fri
ahr
I'm home, but the violin thing isn't until tomorrow... it's nearly midnight Fri night here now
oh right, neat,how was the rest of auug? sorry i had to dash off so quickly -- had a sister to collect from school and all
it was fun.  I caught a couple interesting talks between interviews and customer visits, and it was good meeting a bunch of people I've known about for a long time and/or emailed, but never met.
rock :)
my inbox now has a bunch of messages with:
yeah, it's the new name for the sounder list
dude,dude
dude!,night dude,rock!
dude
it's probably just lamont inflating the stats


fab.and where are you in the hotel?.or should i just follow my nose for the smell of laptops and stale sweat?
i am in finnstock.were you searching for me before?.did you upgrade or did you install xserver?,it works if it can detect everything.. yes..you around?
done
are you on a laptop?
no, desktop with iiyama lcd
chipset?
nVidia Corporation NV18.in X or from a console?
it doesn't matter
no change
well when ddcprobe will support them, we will too :-)
any idea why my mouse is way faster?
perhaps because we are using /dev/input/mice as default.did you have any time to test the mouse acceleration stuff?
not yet. i'll do it in a minute
sorry i don't understand your answer
is it possible this is a kernel driver bug, where some mouses send a much higher resolution data than others and the driver doesn't know this?
yes. it can be everything.,even a mouse that sends more info,i think it's called the repeater or something similar.???
does xfree86 guess a keyboard layout from the locale?
yes,ubuntu11 has the fixes that will go into Debian for all the <META> keys,if it doesn't work please follow up with me and Overfiend ,just a sec,please next time gimme a sec to check the commands :-))))
:)
is that the correct behaviour?.right or left?,please follow up on the Debian bug, exaplaning that you are using svn trunk version of X and that i told you to do so
am doing so now
thanks a lot
british keyboards are pc104
what is the default defoma path?,ok i can add them to the defaults.,they will be in ubuntu12,simply because you might not want to have a config file..
earlier i was changing my X to have a pc105 keyboard, i used dpkg-reconfigure but XF86Config-4 wasn't changed.  i deleted the file, re-ran -reconfigure and that time it didn't write the file.
just a sec. you did 2 things wrong,if you change manually XF86Config-4 the dpkg-reconfigure will not touch it anymore. SImply because it detects a user change.,removing the file has the same effect.,reinstalling is an option, but not the best one. check /var/lib/xfree86/*.md5sum,basically the package respected your manual changes all over
i seeee
but i agree it can be improved there...,not that easily...,i am using debian kernels,yeps
what is so great about this new nv driver i should test?
that it should work.,the one that is around seems to have a few problems with some video cards
so i fixed my really-fast-mouse problem
yes.. i have the fix pending
it was due to XF86Config have psmouse and /dev/input/mouse in
remove the mouse section with the /dev/psaux
:)
yes.. i just commited the fix to svn
yo,walk in, turn left, first right into the conference centre, up the stairs, first right to the end into the cherwell room,i suggest 'mad phat'
you can only say "mad phat" if cruising down a street with jdub's banging ghetto blaster,so my lcd manual says it supports "ddc 1/2b" yet xresprobe says its a generic monitor (non ddc)
what does ddcprobe say?,pc104 used to work, but now you just silently use a key :)
i'll torment you as well unless you tell me where your x.org debs are ;)
http://fooishbar.org/daniel/canonical-x/, i'm not even going to tell you what the deb line is because HERE BE DRAGONS, seriously,if you really, seriously need them, i'll upload all the source packages form my laptop; expecting those ones to even install is a bit of a stretch as i was in the middle of redoing all of them when i started exclusively working on warty concerns
i keep on thinking about playing with composite et al, that is all
ah. probably best to just bust out jhbuild and build kdrive, then?
yeah,its great,hoff and shatner are in it
DUDE! no shit?
http://imdb.com/title/tt0364725/fullcredits.isn't that against some international law?.isn't this pleasant?
yeah, just accidentally whacked the wrong key. how's things?
not bad. finally saw Shaun Of The Dead so things are looking up. you?
hey dude
howerya
not too bad, trying to find a way to get me a ticket to melbourne in my hand before friday morning
yes, 9th-17th :)
sweet :) where're you staying?
jeff's house ;).what happened with that release? is it out or not?
someone over at X.Org had a head explosion, I think,it's up right now
heh,what does that say? :/,:P
how's things?
pretty cruisey dude...winding down for christmas fortunately.how's about you?
nice :) just chilling in barcelona atm
conference went well?
yeah, really well thanks,just relaxing in the holiday aftermath now,chatting to people back home
jetlagged zombie for christmas day then? :)
yeah.  get in 6:20 to like fifty degree weather, catch up with my little sister (5) before she leaves at about lunchtime, then go see other people for the day, then jump on the train to take a 200km journey up to mum's, crash, wake up early for christmas with all the family.
nutball
I'm in wooten with Jeff and some other guys
any reason why i need to join there?
no,s/fabbione/rburton/ in fact.already heard about such problem ?,jdub is waiting for the new libsoup/gtkhtml/evolution packages to fix evolution-*,I was kind of waiting for kitame packages in debian to spare some work, usually he packages them pretty quickly
well the problem is that warty is not installable atm.,and all dailys are crack
outch, ok
ok thanks.,pinf,gnome-games,anything simple that works is fine. i don't need anything fancy,qcad looks good :)
about #1045, you're sure the buffer is lost ? IIRC you can switch back to the console
try this: go to console N, do a ls -lR, go to console M and back to N. You cannot do shift+pg up anymore,net install is your friend :-),you only need to do the base install,after that you can keep going from cdrom
here ?,could you look on #1272 please ? Seems to be a keymap problem rather than a gnome one ... but I don't know a lot about keymap stuff
what can i do for you?
just have a quick look and let me know if you have some idea, thanks
i am reading it now,i would ask him if the problem is persisten all over the applications (that would make it more a X problem),otherwise i have no clue
nobody here has.http://people.debian.org/~joey/3.0r3/ has a couple packages in "need more info" status because they never built on hppa and/or ia64 ... got time to take a peek?
curious... all of the packages marked 'MISSING hppa' I've looked at are either (1) built successfully long ago, or (2) not tried
debian-only package (debootstrap) that I'm about to NMU has version 0.2.44 ... is 0.2.44.1 the right version for me to use for a source NMU?
that's what I'd use
thanks, I'm never sure what to do with debian-only version numbers...
it's really a question of whether or not the previous version was an NMU..
to the best of my knowledge, dselect is still the only front-end to package management that gets the handling of all dependency types right.
yeah, but if you have binaries in your package, that depend on a shlib, is it _LEGAL_ to make that just a recommends?
since I no longer use xmms, and never used any plugins, I'm not sure I care in this particular case.  [so slap me] 
I only care because the bug landed in my lap.
this sounds like anothe problematic example of handling optional functionality,no frozen bubble in the default load?  ;-)
I _TRIED_ to get f-b or kobo into the desktop seed, but it didn't happen...PSC-1315xi?
http://hpoj.sourceforge.net/suplist.shtml.netperf likely as an eventual addition?,not by default, but at least available...
that could certainly go to multiverse today, and with a small license change, could go into at least universe, if not supported.
have I poked you sufficiently, or do I need to note it somewhere else?
still here?
more or less all of the loose machines available for trying things out here are non-i386 systems... 
sudo -s.what kernel are you running on your laptop these days?
on the nc4000?,locally-built 2.6.8.1


I only have a single machine here, so I want to make sure that it's actually serving properly without resorting to multiple X servers.Do you want source or is a deb fine?
just vncclient to localhost
Doesn't that go horribly wrong?.s/locale/locate/ ?


anyone awake?,I just had the same problem as bdale yesterday,I had to manually add my driver to the XF86Config,I had the same garbled text dialogs also.
which driver was written in the config file?,if you notice a bug in sid pleaase report it to Debian. If the same behaviour happens with warty, please let us know and we will track the bug as well
the c3, dude
ping
pong
is jriddell a sane kde dude?
yeah,he seems to be, at any rate
so who do you reckon i should start talking to about kubuntu?
i don't know if mornfall or ervin have tried it; they seemed quite busy. have they emailed you?,i think jriddell could quite well be a sane kubuntu seed,blardy hell. :\,yeah, i think that could be good
did you speak to him at akademy?
actually, no; go figure
intriguing.so did akademy keep the kde flame burning inside your heart?
the pilot light was out, and it didn't even provide a bit of gas,the discussion about the control centre was classic. they were talking about doing macrousability on it, and i put my hand up and pointed out that even when I was hacking on it, it still took me 5 minutes to find what I want, and got a bit of scorn for that
are you coming up for debsig?
yeah, probably just for the day though,that's probably fun with framebuffers,acpi=force
yeah, it says that right next to it... but i don't think i want to :)
kdrive is a good choice for the installer, but i don't think it's good for usplash, tbh,btw, arrive 1635 on the 15th, dep 1415 on the 16th
yeah, we already have an xserver available :)
yeah ... starting two x servers makes little sense to me
we have, but we're using oss compat because it's less buggy than current app use of alsa,got some bad rock
it was pretty easy for me, although it took a turn for the worst when they asked me where i worked,butbutbut.laptop progress?
shipped
rad.where from?,i think he's talkin ga bout the alt-trag above the top border thing
which is?
hold down alt, try to drag a window up so far that the titlebar is above the top of the screen,you can do it for *below*, but not above,nice :)
recordext... not in freedesktop cvs?
er, sure it is
that would be a syntax error
i thought it always rained (or hailed, as the case may be) in sydney.ping?,hmm, how do we configure this stuff? i see no advanced menu or capplet
what stuff?
the freedb stuff that was mentioned in #g-h
the only thing that uses freedb is the cd player,and you can get to the freedb config thingy from it
ah, right,musicbrainz isn't seeming to be doing anything from s-j, i'll check it out later,rad.leper?,arse.does that automacially rebuild the links some clown punctured with an anchor?
i played with that the other day,very silly to have all these daemons
i've been playing with it a bit
wait -- you're adding that to Xsession.options?
hm, i don't think it's so bad if it's really lightweight, kind of makes sense,thinking of doing so.won't do any harm if bluez-tools isn't installed, no?,(don't tell me it's in desktop)
nooooooo,no changes like that
we're going to need it if we seed gnome-bluetooth and g-p-m
concentrate on bugs only, please,those will only be in hoary
yeah. it is only a one-liner, mind; getting it in x now means that we don't have to change conffiles on people
it's a frivolous change,we should *NOT* be making changes like that
'k,(note that bluez-utils doesn't even have an Xsession.d right now -- it was mainly about not changing conffiles lately)
(all the bluetooth stuff has been deferred to hoary)
(good plan)
(see HoaryHedgehog/DesktopSeed for more),(i built all of edd's stuff on my x300 - it's pretty sweet)
(mad phat)
(_totally_)
(yeah, i've been using it here too with a usb bluetooth adaptor, pretty rad except for a couple of firmware bugs on my phone that lock it solid),um, people.n-n-y.com has been working fine for me on rookery for a while now,yeah, fooishbar's been pushing 1.1MB/sec for the last 12 hours (except for the 15min window where it died for no apparent reason -- huzzah)
grr. wrong sender address on your list post :)
er, yeah,i blame the lists moving,shit dude,i thought you were inferring that psi the app had serious licencing problems
hrm
yeah
easy config way to turn off the touchpad?
on powerbooks? no,they just appear as a PS/2 mouse from the hardware
i might find some spare time to write a pygtk replacement for the mouse thing, that talks to synclient :),but having that option set ing XF86Config-4 would be worthy
disabled per default?
i mean the config thingy
(having SHMConfig not there is a bug; I had it set in my initial refactoring)
(we are winning.)
rad,haha,!.are you sure you're using the fglrx driver, and not still using ati?
so do you know what this lack of fbconfig foo is?
gbconfig?,erm, that's really weeird,you can bounce me your xfree86 log if you like
dri initialisation failed! (maybe driver kenrnel module missing or bad) 2d acceleration available (mmio) no 3d acceleration available,bong
have you got the fglrx module probed?,oh
yes, it's loaded
try setting Option "UseInternalAGPGART" "0" (or whatever it is)
(btw, nvidia_agp and agpgart are loaded, too)
yeah, I'd say it's the internal agpgart bong biting you
using built in AGPGART module: yes,and then the same error as before
you want to not use the built-in agpgart modlue,maybe it's NoUseInternalAGPGART
oh..should i expect bong ati adverts or anything?
Option "UseInternalAGPGART" "no", apparently,just direct rendering
seems to grok both,using built in AGPGART module: no
oh man,yeah, I got that, and I think disabling the internal AGPGART fixed that,maybe try enabling it, and removing nvidia_agp and agpgart
hrm, can't remove nvidia_agp ;)
guh,in this case, the only thing I can suggest is Google
hah, gar, even in recovery mode it loads nvidia_agp and something mysterious is using it...
yeep :\
erm,no matching device section for instance ... found,then the same unable to acquire agp error
so much bong
so it seems like it might work with the other drivers loaded,but that's a skanky error
try disabling AGP 8x in the BIOS
bong, okay :)
also, increasing your AGP aperture size (should be a BIOS option) can help
i'll try that next, if this doesn't work,currently 64MB
try 128
hr, ok, that didn't work
ber
same error
this is with internalagpgart off?,if so, try Option "UseFastTLS" "2"
this is with useinternalagpgart true
yeah, try with false
btw, can we use -br? :)
the backing store?,oh yeah,totally.do you want black, or grey?
black seems nicer
ugh.anything useful in dmesg?,bongish.mind bouncing the full log my way?,ehm, that log still has useinternalagpgart on,try making that false,oh man,when you come, you get to see my snoop doll
dpkg -L libgnomevfs2-common | grep dns.you got a .so file there?
yeah, libdns-sd.so,this is with ubuntu3
very odd
you don't have one?
because it doesn't depend on howl, and should build with howl
huh?.isn't howl ... not quite unrelated, but totally not below gnome-cfs?,oh, howl's the mdns stuff,if so, then it probably just disables specific functionality, but leaves a stub libdns-sd around
mmm, the so doesn't link with howl,but i have howl installed, and it works ;)
maybe it tries dlopening howl :),if it wasn't 1.6MB, I'd download the source to see, heh,i think I'm almost done with making g-s-m gksudo and higgy and stuff
oh, sweet,you shoulda taken that bug, it was on my list ;)
i asked you about it, sipper :) want me to assign it to myself?
yeah :)
phat,btw, did I tell you my model Snoop arrived? it features the phrase 'seven dizzles a wizzle' on the box.,bong
well, yeah,but atm it doesn't
weird
so it shouldn't include that so at all ;)
well, if it includes it just as a stub, that's not so bad
daniels: ,bizarre!
i'm tipping it's just a stub that does absolutely sfa
but it works! ;)
maybe it's a super-intelligent stub?
there's like, gobloads of stuff ifdeffed otu
that's so weird.howl doesn't provide a libdns-sd of its own, does it?
not the gnome-vfs one
bong,g-s-m now uses gksu and sudo to do all its privileged crap.do we need to get rid of the 'always show this' checkbox for higginess?,if you bring the x300 down, I can set sbuild up on it
ahr!
represent.wie gehts?
gut, ja.
>1k?
no
what do I win, bob?.ubuntu-users subscribers?.what's the 1297 figure?,the thought of you with pom poms going GIVE ME AN OOOH! is troubling.,deep down, you know you want an x40,true dat,oh, is it thomson.  hmm.,pong from jabber, btw,yah, bob2 really has no excuse ;),they tried to run him out of town by setting fire to cards on his lawn ...
what about tinyx and friends?,would be much nicer to be able to use X :)
i dunno, just seems more sensible to use gtk's native framebuffer stuff
can't do a11y and friends
problem is that framebuffer detection fails once every never,hm
and all the X stuff is very easily retargetable, etc.,that'd be ideal.
mmm
of course, we can always just fail for stupid hardware and make users use the text-based one
hmm, true,... even if he does,sudo xresprobe radeon is still good
oh? handy
yeah,it's just used if you need to do a panel probe or something equally non-ddc that involves starting x,something you can do without 3d ;),yah,word up mofo,i assume he means the bug in xlibs-data whereby every X app ever would spit out 'HFS MAN WTF IS THIS LOCALE' on UTF-8 locales,yeah, really ill
how often is the kde equivalent to libglade used?,we ran away from generated code a while back (though doing it with C++ can be less insane)
never; i didn't know it existed (it may be new to qt4),the generated code wasn't too bad, it just had a lot of unnecessary stuff and looked like arse,so all my kopete ui code was originally generated from qt designer, then hacked to hell
oh, i think i have a preview
preview?,yeah, it should be broken up a bit,hysterical raisins, really
ping
pong
i855 problem DAC1138 is having - looks like the same hardware as me
good catch,well, they sort of do on nvidia
since a month ago?
since 1.0.6629
you're going to make me test this, aren't you?
eh, you can if you want.  closed drivers are all the same to me.,Option "AllowGLXWithComposite" off the top of my head
aha, extra option :).likelihood of COMPOSITE being useful in general for breezy?
HA HA,breezy+1, probably,modularisation is more important
yeah
YOU!.you do realise the staggering irresponsibility of pointing people to a HUGE GODDAMN IMAGE in a cage which has ABSOLUTELY NO BANDWIDTH LEFT?,scorchio!


when i find a network connection for the c3, i'll get you its dsdt
dsdts?
\o/ UBUNTU,heh,your job is to entertain me so I don't fall asleep at 2pm and totally destroy my migration to AEST,what specifically from D-BUS do you need? we can probably backport it
Rock
um, I've not had any problems with the acpi.sf.net patch (default Warty kernel)
For suspend-to-disk,Oh, yeah, I was supposed to tell you what was needed from CVS dbus for Beagle...
if you wanted a backport, yeah ;)
The BusDriver.cs stuff in the mono directory
ok, I'll check it out
Basically, everything trow has added since the end of August
'k.16 million?
If I think big all the time, I am disappointed all the time. As a result, I am used to disappointment and rarely feel unhappy.
your LiveJournal disagrees with you
Anger does not imply unhappiness
fair enough
This is, uh, not strictly true
hey man, did you *feel* how hot that thing got?
I've got the craptop ready and waiting for VIA driver updates...
at the moment, as fabbione alluded to, you get to pick which half of the deployed Via userbase you want to screw,yay!,yeah, I think it totally screwed DFP users also,OBNOXIOUS HIGHLIGHTING TRIGGER ^^,hm, I thought fglrx used DRI
Oh, does it? I'd assumed that having its own AGP implementation probably meant they'd redone everything else as well, but maybe not then
9200,afaict it's just a standadr dri implementation,but you can make it use standard agp stuff (mercifully)
Rock. How long until that's built?
probably 3h to the archive, all told,of note, that also contains the entire unichrome.sf.net via driver
I kiss you
dubious prize,unsurprisingly, 6629 regressed support for some older cards.


oh,i am slow :),haha, thought you were in wootton#
damn it....can you tell the bastard that he should have come on tuesday?
whoa, d'Ubuntu! :)
choose,sounds great doesn't it? :).does that exist?
subscribe!,the invite gave you directions to subscribe
right, sorry. :).just in ubuntu or also in Debian?
definitely in scope for our next release :-),but not for warty ;)


is Kamion around?,ok thanks,ubuntu6 has a few nasty bugs we want fixed,i am building a test release right now
any eta on new images?
i think there will be soon new images with the new X
cool.. just clearing out some spare drives so I can do a number of installs
X on Sounder6 is safe
no probs
uk,rsync is your friend,i sugget to use rsync,rsync will fix the iso
rsync won't bring back the directory inode
that's not completely true...
esp since it's 8pm here
12 here :-)
but then so will warty cos no one will be fixing bugs when they can hack on hoary,true.. but probably still hoary will be a distraction. perhaps hoary could be opened up once the number of bugs gets small..eg: 2 weeks time
sure.. i didn't mean to open it right now,but in a decent time frame and not the day after warty is released,21 RC bugs found. :-)
cook me something!,right.. I'm definitely off to buy food
debianist, pitti: http://www.fabbione.net/pasta.jpg ;)
1. mmmmm! 2. is that a washing machine under that bench?
1) it was gnammy 2) yet,because there is not much space in the house.. so the washing machine is in the kitchen... nothing too fancy ;),it's not like i wash the food in it :-P,afaik the only requirement is disk space and iirc it has been addressed
ok.. so it's listed somewhere on the wiki/webpage? thinking users will want to know
that's true.. but i love to tease thom ;)
heh.. but where's the sport? it's so easy! *grin*.so what was for lunch today?
hehe nothing special today,just a couple of sandwich
heh.. I'll stick to the japanese I just ate
oh yeah... everything is better than what i had today :-)
oh I gave daniels somewhere between 8 and 12 video cards last night, and I've got more as well (including a Matrox G400 Dual head)
oh ok,daniels: don't forget that my house will be a building site.. so we need to be careful handling hardware around.. specially for the dust
well these are all second hand cards.. and not like I need em anymore
well .. it's still hardware to take car of
true. but now it's daniels's problem. *grin*
ahaha,SNMP - simply not my problem :)
heh .. I like that one.quick q.. does the nv or nvidia driver support widescreen style resolutions?
i don't remember sorry. i would have to check
'scool.. thanx anyway
no problem :-)
actually sivang has a good point.. what if the 3d support could be added as a binary module of some type to the existing nv driver? now that'd rock.. it'd be a bit of work for nvidia of course,it'd get rid of this '2 driver shuffle' issue.. hrm.. now if only we can convince nvidia.. *grin*
welcome to do so. i have binary drivers enough already ;)
heh..,the world is a drug!,Never turn your back on a drug. Especially when it's waving a razor sharp hunting knife in your eye.
ehm.. that wasn't really the point
there has to be a point? *grin*
well yes.. i am very tired :P
you'll get sleep when daniels gets there.. he promotes sleep
AHAHA
usually the "You're mad daniel, you know that? ahh stuff this, I'm going to go to sleep and ignore you for a while." type of thing,though the other type of sleep is the "I'm too pissed to stand" style
lol
I must admit, from what I've seen of daniels' driving skills, he could be italian.. has a reckless attitude to speed..,nah, usually it only takes 3-4 hrs after finding another bug,yeah, rest up
i tend to think they did it right this night.what is broken?
.so loading
what xorg version?
I still blame daniels *grin*,I'm using a k7 here, and no luck with glx at all,if you need me to test stuff, just ask
this is _good_ crack.
yup
that was last friday. :)
we bought the house today !:),ALWAYS!.are you busy?
I think it might return ppc64 as well,I will, I think
we still have the BTS via IMAP access :-)
right, I have forgotten about that.  I need to get mark to fund some of my crackier ideas.,actually, it's not ok, as gksu will then fail.did you see my nagging about the lvm2 segfault?
no. it's all day that i am working with X
on the other channel. :)
to a segfault in one ioctl on /dev/disc when /dev is devfs
yes, but it got fixed in Debian
if you have the setup is ok,i am testing your upload queue :-),x went ok.. so i guess the queue is working :-),for / on lvm2 on raid, my best guess is lvm2.,but i will check it, if you didn't do it already,ddcprobe on via chipset = X dies
yeah, tube ipod.,replaced me with a server,great work!


is Kamion around?
I think he's sleeping
we will need another X kick today


good morning ;).did you see justdave's gvm autorun default issue?
yes, I did,I know what the problem is, but I don't quiet know how to solve it yet
modify the schemas file
I'm not sure what you mean
the defaults are defined in the gconf schema file,included with gvm
I think we may be talking about different issues
justdave said autorun was on by default (which doesn't sound right to me, but...),it's not a sane default (even though almost nothing uses autorun, but if something shitty did, then that would suck)
ok, we can disable it.do all the file names need to change as well (ubuntu-artwork)?
as opposed to just the theme dir names?
mdz: gvm *does* prompt before running,I mean like the image filenames
i'd prefer it off, even just so it doesn't pop up stupid dialogues
I'll leave it off
hrm, ignore ubuntu-artwork bugs for the moment,on my way towards uploading a substantially different package
ok,I have plenty of other bugs to fix at the moment :),love the new wifi icon, but it makes me want to left click on it (like mac) :),I've actually already clicked on it like 3 times,I just mean I love the simplicity of it
  cupsys dbus-1 fam
can you give me any more info than that?.what is the last command executed?.what is the result if you do echo $TERM?,ok, we just need to filter out the TERM=screen setting,I'm going to close those bugs and open a new one
ok, ta
its not removed yet, but it needs to be,501 has to get fixed, cause otherwise removing grub-splash will break upgrades,yes,just installed the new ubuntu-artwork -- my icons are *huge*.did you say that there were some restrictions on what you can modify in the openoffice splash screen?  if so, do you know where I can find that info?
make the ubuntu logo look like it's coming out of the OOo birdies butts!
mdz: its going to be too tight to put both logos on.  I can shrink them, but they just get too small
seriously man, the ubuntu logo coming out of the birds butt,not so tight a squeeze!
out of the birds butt is an even tighter squeeze
hrm
mdz: who made the bug critical?,I will, letting my compiles happen overnight ;),and I actually don't have a gentoo install anywhere in the house right now :),apparently so, I can't get on either
are you getting upload confirms for your uploads/


Aug 23 11:52:25 buildd-mail: openssh has been installed; removing from upload dir:,hilltop has been happy all night,that's about 10 minutes work, all told,I wonder if it would be possible to get the cd-creation code and an rsync-able directory of the ISO contents somewhere - that'd probably go faster than rsync'ing the iso, I think
the CD-creation code is at http://ftp.no-name-yet.com/cdimage/code/ plus colin.watson@canonical.com--2004/cdimage--mainline--0, but I wouldn't really advise doing it that way at the moment ....you could also try netboot?
yeah, I could at that.  What I'm actually going to do is hit an internet cafe in town tonight
have any of the amd64 buildds tried to build debian-installer yet? All the build-deps should be there now.
checking
aha,sarge is in a somewhat better position because it didn't freeze d-i in the middle of doing sata support ;)
ln: accessing `./tmp/netboot_2.6/cd_tree/linux': No such file or directory
there've been two uploads since then, one of which should have fixed exactly that issue ...
meaning amd64 officially made it back into the list.  cool.
speaking of, is daily-installer-amd64 working?
this mornings ran fine.
yep, it is. could you add hurd-i386 amd64 to the grub-installer line in P-a-s, please?
done - I assume that you'll poke elmo to freshen warty's PaS?
didn't know I had to,I'll remind him next time I see him
I think it's under the same freeze as the rest of debian stuff..does #1008 close with elmo sync'ing things?
think so; reassign to James?
will do
when do the BuildDI jobs run?,good, so the upload I just made should easily make it
unless it needs by-hand loving, or is openoffice... :-)
just a little cdrom-detect
sounder8 is available?
not quite
just being paranoid.,not worth the effort, I expect
also before the daily CD image builds crawl out of bed, which IIRC are at the time they are in order to suit fabbione and me ...,xterm -e ssh-add seems like a somewhat strange approach
remember: gnome illiterate...
so am I, this is my plain X setup,let me know if debian-installer fails (blocking on that at the moment)
debian-installer_20040801ubuntu10 succeeded x3,and checking that is the only reason I'm still here... :-),so I'm hacking on the BuildDI script again...,the new and improved daily build script only adds the extra digit when you have me do a second build in the same day, and resets it back to just YYYYMMDD whenever you do a sourceful upload
heh
what does 'Add 'Defaults !lecture,tty_tickets' to initial sudoers file.' mean?
the timestamp thing was done in base-config, not in sudo,that change is the bit that wants reversed,check with fabbione, he took the lock on base-config a while ago.such as?
d-i woes with the buildd's resolved?
dunno yet,yes, they seem to be
good - I'll get with elmo and see if he changed anything when I get back home..you around?
yep?
what fqdn does the poor machine get at install time?,really trying to figure out what the magic guesses d-i makes are, wrt hostname.yeah - let me rephrase that... is there a way that postfix's config script can find out if you asked those questions or not?
doubt it
yeah - I was afraid of that. :-(
you can't really get at the d-i cdebconf database unless you're base-config,like all right-thinking people,any time I'd otherwise be holding down the shift key :).you're a vi user aren't you?
yes, vi not emacs
has to be 5.04 I think
we could pull up the daily build if you want
we're not going to be using the daily build for the preview release, so don't worry about it
so it's a good thing they're fast? :)
s'what multiple machines are for ... :)
heh,only in my nightmares.,once the fat lady sings, er, shows up, ....they all done building?
hell yeah
/me wasn't sure how long the process took...,apparently... accepted mail, but no happy-happy-joy-joy
I didn't think the approval was mechanically enforced
me either, but empirical evidence suggests otherwise.,and elmo was asking mdz about approvers yesterday, ISTR,the other possibility is that cron.daily is now running, um, daily.,but that would be, well, wrong, you know.
any clue why koffice failed on i386/powerpc?,a friend is asking me
kdelibs FTBFS on ppc (segv, reproducable).  kdebase is FTBFS (missing build depends, awaiting archive processing),Kamion: 
10 is badparams
don't look at the script, you'll puke.,_7_ levels of if deep, he does an rm.  Many of those if's are checking the return from db_get.,fwiw, the "criteria from last night" was the kde-in-ubuntu discussion that ended with "no additional risk in making universe things that were ftbfs,source-only in the preview (like kde) build and have binaries.
?
can't remember what I was going to ask you.
fair enough :)
can you think of any case where base-config would finish with a null hostname? (or empty /etc/hostname, /etc/resolv.conf?)
I really don't know netcfg well enough to be sure of that
oops
let me know when you're happy for something to be pushed into sarge
it'll hit sid urg=high
yes, but util-linux is frozen,so it will need to be pushed by hand
true... Just trying to be consistant.. :-),mail sent
ta.is newaliases not run during the installation?
there's one case (that requires that, for whatever reason, myhostname wind up being empty,btw, a blank hostname is fatal to newaliases, you see.... :-(
that warty.buildd script seems to be missing amd64 ....perhaps warty.buildd should go in the debootstrap package?
yeah, it should...,you want to file the bug, and I'll deal with amd64 and get the upload ready
we're not doing that with Ship for warty, will do for hoary,(because we needed to create an apt archive for Ship, and that was delicate ...),whee!
what's -h?
print hash marks,need to get thom to fix that, I suspect
I think he's at the DC, and not online. :(
I'll see if I can SMS him,SMSed thom about the torrent brokenness,good-oh
100% agreement on the 2 UI's,maybe we need 2 names for releases...  then we know when they're running the unreleased hoary :-)
early breezy, I'm going to put an evolution-like "you know this is alpha software, right?" first screen in the installer
_A_QUESTION_?????? :-)
yup,Mark's edict only applies to final releases, as far as I'm concerned :)
known bug. check bugs.debian.org/src:xfree86,permission denied. please do a chmod 644 P* or something,just stay around. i might need you to do some stuff for me.do you have a full copy of that oops?,i know there is a way to get it dumped via network, but i am not sure how reliable it is and how it works exactly.
I'm waiting approval to join the sounder list.  Can you send me a copy of your message?
haven't written it yet.,basically you copy the entire oops in a file,apt-get install kernel-source-2.6.7 && cd /usr/src && tar jxvfp kernel-source-2.6.7.tar.bz2 && cd kernel-source-2.6.7/Documentation
I had the same oops on boot again.  Didn't get time to take notes, but at least it seems like a regular thing ;-)  I'll take notes next time.
ok.. but please try to do it.
did you send the email with brief instructions on what to do?
no. I have lost the last 3 months of emails yesterday,good catch ;)


setuid /bin/mount is going to be disabled in favour of pmount, which doesn't require entries in fstab,done,speaking of hate mail, we need to re-enable the hostname question in d-i
under all circumstances, I take it?
I would say so
done
I will accept responsibility for the additional question :-).what time were you planning to roll Sounder 7?,you're free to statoverride /bin/mount and edit fstab,if you need to start now, then do it.  it's more important to get sounder 7 out than to have usplash,that's a known bug in thom's acpid upload,please do file a bug to remind him,if you have time to do it, reverting ubuntu4 is fine with me,I believe the final scheme for the version number was with a dash (4-10)
indeed. it's a Recommends: thing, fixed,actually, if we're going the archive-copier route we absolutely want this approach
archive-copier would handle base as well?.does this include all of the shipseed additions we made in Oxford?
that's all entirely automatic now, so yes
barking?,archive-copier seems to do the right thing for me, as far as copying
apt-cdrom add, too
by the time I logged in on vt2 to look, /var/cache/apt/archives was empty
oh, damn, I forgot to mention that; you also need to boot with KEEP_DEBS=yes,apparently this happens when xresprobe can't
yeah, I'm prodding it now.  but it was detecting my LCD OK in Oxford,this is the d-i-with-no-network case.Applications->System Tools->Terminal?
is more awake than I am,working on upgrading our netcfg to be based on Debian 1.01, which has several fixes we want; hope that's ok
if you're ok, I'm ok,oh, forgot to mention...I did another round of sounder 7 testing using archive-copier and KEEP_DEBS=yes; seemed to work perfectly
kewl.that iftab thing in netcfg could go upstream, couldn't it?
I assume so,yes.why is it named 'fortune-mod' anyway?
I've often wondered that
come to look, fortunes-min is actually pretty reasonable,quite likely
s'what I thought
ooh, we have a sorted daily now?
for a while ...,I was wondering if sorting the directory inodes with the files they contain would help too - they're all at the start at the moment
what would be a safe time of day to automatically rsync the current daily iso?
the dailies are always finished by 8:45 UTC, and almost always finished by 7:30 UTC; I don't know what the two freak late ones were about
thanks,with the sorted CD, it seems to do quite well on source packages with multiple binaries, but it still seems to seek every time it has to read a new directory
ok, sounds like I'll have to twiddle that a bit; I can probably sort directories with the .debs they contain relatively easily
fascinating...in #268421 the submitter pasted the entire status file entry as the debbugs pseudo-header
cool
console-data asked me a question on upgrade for some reason
no idea; what does echo GET debconf/priority | debconf-communicate say?,wasn't anything I changed anyway, I don't think
0 high.did that make it onto your todo list?.what do you think?,yeah, I was thinking it was, but then, the last message is worded such that people don't generally read it
true, but that applies to most of the installer,easy to put a comment in /etc/sudoers about it ... power users can remove it,so, am I doing the timestamp_timeout=0 thing or not? I'm about to upload base-config for another reason ...
it's OK with me if you and pitti agree,it sounded like there was a consensus on #warthogs.does Keybuk's laptop overheat itself during the install if we don't?.can you send him an email and ask him about the ACPI stuff?,absolutely not; I'd prefer it
removing eth1394 from hw-detect now
ok, I'll upload hotplug.why doesn't evolution1.5 install on its own?  was it missing when the CD was built or something?
works for me; do you just mean the way aptitude won't install anything if one piece of the task is uninstallable?
oh, so it's just fallout from the evolution-* uninstallability then?
well, when I do it using aptitude by hand then I get evolution1.5 installed, so I guess so
we can, but it makes the output awfully unreadable,they use the same method, which is the root of the issue I suppose,pkgSourceList::Describe, I believe,hmm, it actually does that explicitly
stopping adding /cdrom to fstab is non-trivially fiddly, because integration between d-i and base-config is involved there.?
npmccallum: when I looked at the eject upload, it did not look like it depended on pmount. did I miss something?,yes, it is actually a bit higher level than mount.which version of eject is that from?
2.0.13deb-6ubuntu1,quite :-)
no
by "fixing" do you mean moving the dependency to eject, or removing it altogether?
removing the dependency and having it fall back to standard umount
ah, good
pitti: is the initial user added to plugdev?
yes, it just occurred to me earlier today (after joeyh asked about it) that that might be why our /etc/default/gdm was ending up mode 0600
that was only filed as important(!),ip has had a man page for _ages_.what's your opinion on the sbin question?,mousedev is totally generic input layer goodness,:-(,there really should be a sane kernel-level way to handle this,we could just compile in mousedev everywhere, too.why is it done that way on powerpc, anyway?
because you always want it? who knows
thanks.you're still awake?? or up early?
don't think I was still awake by 6:25, but I was up depressingly late for no very good reason,today's daily worked, anyway
oh, good
custom-expert (name sucks, I know) is base-only and low priority, in case you ever need that
just trying an install with the current daily
I think you're right that it's the directory ordering on the CD that's slowing things down
what should we do about archive-copier vs. apt-cdrom?,let me know when there's a CD up and I'll give it a try; I'm quite interested to see the difference,Scots prefer the spelling whisky; Americans follow instead the Irish spelling, so Kentucky bourbon is whiskey.
I know which is which, certainly :-),I had been wondering whether to have Scotch or Irish
ah :-),maybe,yeah, that's what I meant.grub-installer is missing from the amd64 CD; is that intentional?,that is, it's not on the CD at all
not in the archive
bug filed.that alone should not cause the script to fail, should it?  if it were set -e, then whichever command actually produced the nonzero $? would have terminated the script, no?
look more closely at bug #1019; the && means set -e doesn't trigger.can we have a debian-installer component in bugzilla so that people stop assigning bugs to libdebian-installer?
yes,done
so, what does the latest build failure look like?
file a bug about that 2>/dev/null, please,i386 kernel built fine; powerpc and amd64 weren't implemented until this morning.so the current amd64 daily should be a good one?,thanks for the d-i changes for the kernel
yes, current amd64 daily should be ok ...,if you're uploading linux-source-2.6.8.1 again, I can hold the sounder release until we've got all the d-i ducks in a row for all architectures; shouldn't take too long to do the remaining two
I've uploaded it again,it should build all of i386, amd64 and powerpc now
will wait for builds, then do l-k-di-*, then build other stuff, then ...
any clue?
would be better now to wait for a new kernel-package to build and just rebuild with that, I think
what sort of base-installer support for amd64?.should I test the current amd64 daily, or wait for the next one?.was that an explicit change from boot-floppies?
pcmcia-cs isn't particularly related to boot-floppies?
base-config maybe?  anyway, in woody, pcmcia-cs was removed on systems without pcmcia
oh, gotcha
great, so the next daily should be 2.6.8.1 across the board?.thom: regarding bugzilla, either of you want to file a wishlist bug to ask justdave about it?.do you have a new linux-kernel-di for powerpc ready for when the kernel itself is built?,hmm, I didn't think udebs had init scripts
pcmcia is a special case
is it the only such?
the only one I know of
he's gone :-/.is it OK to update the seeds for 2.6.8.1?
crap, forgot about that for amd64 :),you do base, I'll do installer
amd64?  base doesnt' seem to have been updated for any arches
base should only need doing for powerpc in fact ...
base still says kernel-image-2.6-386
base doesn't need it for i386/amd64, it uses the metapackages,... oh,wrong metapackages, right
updated base and supported,looked through all and extra; seems to be in order.what's the location of your new germinate archive?.does b-i have the smarts to select the tasty optimized kernel for all warty architectures?,I talked to mark about it on the phone today
BTW, I guessed that misdn wasn't needed in d-i, but might've been wrong
dunno, probably a question for doko,ipw2200
going to make archive-copier the default for Sounder 8; it isn't going to get enough feedback otherwise
sounds good
why is bicyclerepair under "Germinate workarounds" in DesktopSeed?
misplaced, I suppose,I probably just wasn't paying attention to the different types of headings in the file when I added them,if that applies to the version we ship, then yes, certainly,the changelog is convincing,speaking of getting up, don't you need to sleep eventually so that you can do that too? :-)
if you wanted to remove pppoe, then pppoeconf will need to go too
it shouldn't.is this a problem for the CD build?
not too bothered
let's see if we can put our heads together and come up with a strategy for it, and then it can go offline
ok
I agree,right
well, I made an attempt to get firmware loading support going, but I doubt that it works
apart from the firmware issues, is there a wlanctl-ng udeb?,I can look at firmware support with you; I have hardware I can test with,we may not even have anything outstanding from his list, but we'll see
I don't think that's a big deal myself
ok.what shall we do about a udeb for l-r-m?.pick it apart in linux-kernel-di?
that would produce essentially restricted udebs, but in main,I was thinking a separate kernel-wedge-using thing
hmm, yes, that would mean linux-kernel-di would build-dep on the restricted modules, yuck
BTW, I do have another idea for cutting down the udeb problem; we can reunify linux-kernel-di-*
ooh, that sounds nice
it might run into apt limits though, I'm sure you're familiar with that problem ...
I think I bumped those limits high enough in current apt, but it's easy enough to bump them again if necessary
that's not the issue, think woody->warty upgrades ...
woody->warty upgrades require an apt pre-upgrade to work well anyway
the point is it can get hard to even apt-get update
we'll drown under that bridge when we come to it, I guess :-)
sure
let's hold off until we've decided on the final list
I'll just remove pppoe for this release then
ok,a quick update on the installer is the last item on my agenda,in fact, if it's ok with you, I'd like to test a sounder 8 candidate before you bless it
sure
is it just a matter of increasing the priority, or is it trickier than that?
resizing ext3 not working; may be a parted issue, haven't diagnosed it yet,increasing the priority would fix it, but may incur Mark's wrath at an additional question :-)
it would only be asked if it couldn't associate without one, no?
I think it's asked regardless, but wouldn't swear to it
is the question which devices should be added to fstab?
yes
ready to test when you are,I was just thinking,apt-cdrom essentially does "find /cdrom/",maybe that could substitute for your explicit find
probably not in cdrom-detect, since apt-cdrom isn't even close to installed yet ...,but yes, apt-cdrom would substitute for it in the case where you aren't using archive-copier; I didn't make any post-reboot changes along those lines,new daily is up
eh?  it seems to do utf-8 by default
I tried changing the locale in a new tab, but it doesn't seem to display Unicode characters correctly when I do that
hmm, I thought there was a profile setting for that, but I guess it sets it based on your locale when you start it.any remaining external blockers for sounder 8?
there's another amusing initscript bug though
*groan*.did you file aa bug and/or tell npmccallum yet?
just filed, #1088
oh, I already fixed that, didn't I?,I'm available to give amd64 a whirl before you bless it, if you're ready
everything's ready on my end, let me know when you're done
CD writer is acting up, working on it,yeah, don't wait for me.cdrom-detect change?
what exactly did your question mean? :)
you said that your cdrom-detect change had a larger effect on performance.is that where you did the find?.why is archive-copier a net speed loss?
in the first stage,you're doing more work, obviously it's a speed loss :).has anything from restricted been seeded yet?
no, because there is only one package there, and its name is going to change
I'd like that to happen soon if it's going to happen so that I can shake out any bugs in debian-cd it exposes
they should work fine for http as well
only if you can contact it, though ...
we already agree that we should only uncomment it if it can be contacted
oh, I see. really?
it goes roughly in sources.list order, first-match
we could always put http: above cdrom: ...,then the ship seed is entirely pointless
my concept of ShipSeed was to have things close by that you might need to get on the network and such
shipseed has stuff like alternate browsers at the moment
those are huge; if the user really wants them, they might be grateful to have them on the CD
but they won't be able to if the cdrom: URI is zapped
   * Install S33framebuffer-module-linux-i386 on amd64 too.is that the only reason the framebuffer didn't work for me on amd64?
in theory, can't test yet :),agreed
yes
if we turned off base-config's cache-cleaning, that would be fine ...
oh, I didn't realize we were still cleaning the cahce
after aptitude -y install blahrant runs, yes
aptitude reimplements significant pieces of apt
what does apt do if a file: URI disappears? does apt-get update fail?
yeah, that wouldn't be right. apt gets unhappy if it disappears
/var/lib/?,the second stage already takes a long time; I'm not sure that it's a problem to have "downloading <foo> from security.no-name-yet.com" show up there,gives people "secure by default" warm fuzzies, contrasted with the Windows approach of "install system then get on the net as fast as you can to download updates before your system is cracked"
it takes a long time, but not nearly as long as installing xfree86 over a modem or ISDN,ideally, the security updates would be a separate step, which could be run from X while they do other things
we should load those on amd64 too, I take it,Live (not subset of) Supported is somewhat insanely weird to implement in Germinate,doable, I guess, but definitely not for 1am contemplation ...
I don't mind if Live is required to be a subset of Supported for now,it's just an idea that might change at some point.around?
works for me
that would explain it
sounder 8 has it
thanks.does sounder 8 have the apt-setup which add the ftp.nny.com sources to sources.list?  or was that added after?.what do you think is the best way to handle that?,if you're ok with the changes to base/debootstrap/whatever else, that's probably simplest
module-init-tools or similar> agreed I think
I'm leaning toward the alsa-base postinst solution, myself.seem reasonable?
I'd stick \$ at the end of the grep,give me a shout if you need debootstrap changes, I'm off to get something to eat now
I think I'm leaning in that direction, being unable to easily verify this in the kernel source,if you're happy for them to move, I'm happy to consider them appropriate for base as hardware detection stuffs,that cinches it; we want alsa-base in Base
done
thanks for the new debootstrap,morning.wanted to ask you...what's the status of restricted support in germinate/debian-cd/...?
should all be there,you'd need to ask elmo whether he runs germinate over main+restricted+universe though
so I can add linux-restricted-modules-2.6.8.1 to DesktopSeed and it ought to work?,elmo is hiding
last I heard, germinate on jackass ran over main+universe, but that was before restricted was implemented,yes, it definitely should, I think I've updated everything; if not, give me a shout, it'll be a five-minute job to fix
would you be interested in a test build if i do it now, or wait for the next daily?
can do
will you be around for a bit? still on the phone
I'll be around until c. 2:15/2:30,hm, in fact I need to make germinate on little run over main+restricted ...
do you  know what elmo's caps lock complaint is about?
afraid not, will test it first thing tomorrow
can you point me in the right direction for getting hotplug firmware loading working in d-i?
put the firmware on a partition you can mount from the installer,run up to partitioning, ignoring network failures,on tty2, mount the partition you put the firmware on, and copy it to /usr/lib/hotplug/firmware/,probably copy the relevant kernel modules to the right place as well,then go back to the d-i main menu and retry the "detect network hardware" step, and see if it works at all
what would be the best way to convince it to let me set a console keymap?,there is no /sbin/hotplug
/bin/hotplug-pcmcia, it's set as the hotplug handler for brief periods
yeah, so if I tweak all the right knobs, it works
starting a new CD build now to see what happens.uh, how were you planning on getting linux-restricted-modules installed as part of base?
debootstrap, presumably?
debootstrap can't install it because debootstrap (rightly) doesn't install kernels
which package provides hotplug-pcmcia?
something in the ddetect source, hw-detect I think,you have new CDs with restricted stuff on them now,jdub: a friend of mine (also a sounder) wanted to interview me about Ubuntu for a LUG radio thingy, possibly on Wednesday, possibly later,jdub: is Wednesday too soon, and if not is there anything in particular you want me to say / not say? :),any particular reason that we don't have *-2.6-* metapackages for linux-restricted-modules? it would help base-installer to behave more sanely
I was thinking the same thing (metapackages for l-r-m), I think we'll add them.did sounder 8 have 2.6.8.1 on i386?
are you saying that X will already prefer the nvidia binary module if it's present?,because as of today we install nvidia-kernel-common by default; it's a dependency of linux-restricted-modules
I am not sure, but it should be quite straightforward to implement, given that nv and nvidia cover the same cards,the X driver is in nvidia-glx
broke netboot insta. Sorry about this. The relevant part of the change was:,http://archive.ubuntu.com/cdimage/sounder-test/8/warty-i386-1.list says yes.John was talking about a DVD burner on woody, not warty ... you didn't misread did you?
oh, apparently I did.regarding the metapackages for linux-restricted-modules, I was going to ask Herbert to do that anyway, but you're OK for preview with it as-is, right?
yes; the only glitch is that (as I realized today) we're not actually installing the linux-image metapackages,when I fix that, the linux-restricted-modules metapackages will need to be there as well otherwise it gets really hairy
agreed
is that base-installer fix-to-the-fix OK with you?
yes, didn't I OK it in bugzilla alreday?,my comment didn't get posted because I got logged out somehow,there ought to be a new openoffice today.is anyone other than you currently able to build CD images?
anyone in the cdimage group on little can log in and type 'DATE_SUFFIX=<whatever> cron.daily',so theoretically Alex could do it,nobody else ever has, though ... I should almost certainly fix that
assuming you're planning to sleep tonight, we might want to get someone else (perhaps me) added to that group
all the top-level scripts are in /srv/cdimage.no-name-yet.com/bin; I just have that in $PATH,normally, cron.daily is the only one you need to run (preferably with umask 002)
if you're going to do a build anyway, perhaps I should run it as a test.so this one should be DATE_SUFFIX=1?,cron.daily exited, no output,I expected cron.daily to create 20040914.1, but it didn't
it fell over; I know why, still on phone though
ok
try now.are you using umask 002?
022,I didn't even have a home directory until I logged into that box
002's be good
done
right, sorry about that, old university friend phoned up
I have all night :-)
can you chmod -R g+w everything? there are some directories still owned by you and g-w so I probably won't be able to remove them
for what value of everything?.that stuff?
/srv/cdimage.no-name-yet.com I guess,see /srv/cdimage.no-name-yet.com/secret/README
done. shall I try again?
yep; reusing .1 is fine,at this rate I'm going to have to add a kludge chmod to the end of cron.daily or something ...
yes,if you had a kludge in for that, it can and should be removed
kludge gone, not in time for your current build though.heh, was ssh waiting for confirmation there?
dunno, I had no output,if there was any, I assume it was written to the log and not to my tty,let's do another one, oo.o on amd64 is worth it
would appreciate it if you could do that chmod again
done
wait just a sec
too late, if you meant the chmod
another build kicked off
testing .2/amd64 now,amd64 install was flawless
woohoo
any value in my testing 0914.2 on powerpc, or do you have it covered?
I'll be testing it soon, but the more the better
would you notice if it were broken?
apparently it's a hard failure, so should do
me too,yeah,nautilus seems built now; re-testing powerpc here
what about openoffice.org-amd64?
what about it?,powerpc install was flawless
bonus,hooray
yes, and the dates
let's look at rearranging the .torrent files after preview
rearranging?
so, we're asking the "do you want to download updates from the network?" question for both archive.ubuntu.com and security.ubuntu.com in one go, is that right?
I don't think we should ask more than one question
agreed,the question is whether to ask about archive and default security on, or ask about both
one question, "do you want stuff via the Internet?".still with us?
yep,the cdimage crontab will fire too early to catch the base-config I just uploaded (or, rather, I uploaded it too late for the crontab)..should I move the crontab, or just build another image when base-config builds?
I moved it,both of them
where?
shouldn't we do a set when all oo.o binaries are available?
probably worth respinning then, yes
please don't say that,please oh please
it doesn't look like the patch has been applied :-(
I am starting to get that feeling.is your mirror out of date?
I'm encountering that; I don't think it has anything to do with mirror outdatedness, though
other than the download weirdness, .1 looks good
it's not that tcl8.0, gs, gs-gpl are out of date on little
yes, I was just noting that
they're not on the CD at all, and shouldn't need to be, but aptitude wants to install them for some reason
hmmm,gs is in universe?!,oh, we're using gs-esp.germinate bug, perhaps?,several packages depend on gs, and gs-esp provides gs
germinate's fine; looks like aptitude is wanting to install the first package in a |-ed list,gs in main comes from the gs-gpl source,you may vomit now,so, fresh install from CD without taking updates from the network doesn't install tcl8.0,gs,gs-gpl and doesn't object to their absence,uncommenting those sources.list entries and doing update/upgrade seems fine too,I conclude that aptitude is mad and we should not worry about it for preview
agreed,fixed gnome-vfs2 is built all around.shall we roll a new CD?
coming up
Computer->Disks->right-click->unmount
no unmount entry on the right-click menu
really? works for me,pumount /dev/foo should work at any rate
I have 'Eject', not unmount
two weird things happened on powerpc just now,archive-copier's progress bar was confused, and it ejected the CD
the progress bar's capped at about 75% at the moment; it's a bug, I know where it is,the CD eject is deliberate
it takes ~1 second to fetch openssh-server from archive.u.c,compared to 30 seconds or so to get the CD and insert it
just installing it now,works for me
inetd should go away for hoary, likewise for mdadm (where you don't have raid devices)
we could just put mdadm in Ship and d-i would sort out installing it at the right times with no effort at all
it used to, because of the particulars of Linux networking without an IP address
encoding/decoding UDP yourself sounds like asking for trouble
agreed
feel free ...,although, yes, a find at the start would help, but there's only so fast it can go
I'd be tempted to drop /install/ for the preview, since there isn't a live CD
fine by me
it is increasingly unlikely that we will have anything approaching a live CD corresponding to this release,all clear to build the next (and hopefully last) CD,for future optimization, powerpc should build first :-)
wouldn't matter anyway, they don't publish to the mirrors until all the architectures have built,damnit, you have way more bandwidth than I do
just noticed that archive-copier copies all the powerpc subarch kernels
yes, I mentioned that a few days ago,they can't be yet, they rely on the images being in /releases/,the torrents have the location in them.how's powerpc looking?
have you seen Subject: Re: install instructions on the -users list?,if you can review the text and make any necessary corrections, lu can integrate it
was python-mode one of the things we took out for some reason in that desktop seed blitz? I forget ...
I don't think so; I didn't even know about it.here?,amd64 issues should go to Mithrandir
heh, pass the buck :-)
are you up early or up late?
late; just off to bed now ...,you should know by now that I'm not one of these early-to-rise freaks ;)
true
I take it you don't feel like adding 64MB to the CD for the other kernels
we have about 100M left, right?
there is a linux-source-*.deb though
looks good to me
rough back-of-an-envelope calculations say 125MB on amd64, 140MB on i386, 72MB on powerpc
remaining?
yep
eek
it's held very steady for the last week; about 40MB lost since Sounder 8,shame about not defaulting to NPTL if possible, mind,for Hoary we should have my new base-installer, which may let us be a little more flexible (e.g. include just the -686 kernel and have higher CPUs fall back down to it)
would you be willing to make a quick test CD if we move pcmcia-cs out to ShipSeed?
sure
I'd like to give it a run through,would it be possible to it without tweaking the seeds as a trial? I seem to recall you had overrides of some sort
not really as sophisticated as overrides, but I have a script ... :),(hey, I could use germinate hints, couldn't I? that would be CLEVER.)
at some point we'll need to add documentation and suchlike
speaking of, please beat me up until I do an installation manual branding job,hm, it's not a CD matter, I need a different debootstrap script to change Base.how about you install from an existing CD but edit pcmcia-cs out of /usr/lib/debootstrap/scripts/warty before debootstrap starts?,I'll go and try that on my desktop amd64 now,latest patch to #1337 includes bootloader configuration changes,seems to correctly not install pcmcia-cs on a desktop
if uploaded now, we could roll a test CD tomorrow with this and the pcmcia-cs changes, right?
can I also add acpi-modules to amd64 while I'm at it?
certainly
OK, starting uploads now
so does the daily CD build use the d-i build done earlier that day?  or one that you've blessed?
it uses the daily build at the moment,but it relies on elmo being awake to byhand it, so it's usually the previous day's build
back?
also an ntfsresize hack was added to partman very recently
good call
that's American English
no, we don't do that either
don't we use -Wl,-O1? Jeff said we were using that everywhere
we need to make sure that cdroms (and other removable media) do not end up in fstab,all removable media needs to be handled by pmount, which will refuse to mount anything in fstab (for good reason)
presumably I should make the same quietinit->splash change in yaboot-installer?
yes
done,(was the actual option change in sysvinit, or somewhere else?)
sysvinit,usplash will also check for it and not display if it isn't there,sysvinit is already changed (at least the package is uploaded)
the patch as posted is wrong, but I've tested with a similar change and it's fine
if it works, can you patch it and upload it?
sure, let's make it tomorrow though :-)
np
hm, that eject change is going to need some testing to make sure it doesn't break d-i
pmount just wraps mount, so long as you are a. root or b. have the device in fstab it should be fine,pmount also gives you other priviledges, like mounting removeable non-fstab devices as non-root
that's not my point at all
I'll double check that,thats the whole reason why we created the lsb-base package (so its available in base),ok, I'll have to wait until they all enter the archive before I can really script a fix,do the udebs need a depend on lsb-base too? (do they include an initscript?)
maybe just fall back to something like the old-style output instead
thats a little difficult with the way it is currently structured
doesn't have to be exact by any means.is it impossible to get it onto the same line?
To get it on the same line requires tput,yes,this is only the cases where tput doesn't work on the specified terminal and when /usr isn't mounted,it probably isn't impossible, but makes the api wierd,we'd have to make all the messages not output newlines and instead put newlines at the beginning of each message,but then if text we can't easily control gets printed in the meantime, it will look funky
ping?,I think reviewing the code is most important at the moment, to get the bugs squashed as early as possible; we can tweak the output after preview release
the installer is looking great
sec
module-init-tools bug is fixed, pcmcia fix is on its way
great, thanks
I'll email you a diff.which email should I use?,sent
looks like you don't have po-debconf installed; I suggest installing it.shouldn't 'start' do check_for_no_start and check_privsep_dir *before* saying "Starting OpenBSD Secure Shell server"?
its nice to know what script is running, but if you want something different, thats ok,I *do* actually have po-debconf installed, so that isn't the issue with the ssh-server changes
see the first couple of pages of debian/rules; there's a bunch of encoding-munging there,make sure that the stuff that sticks 1 in debian/po/output is firing
its happening on multiple packages, not just ssh
want me to do the openssh one, if you have a deadline? I know I can build it reliably :),you might have too-old versions of some things, perhaps,might wanna mail me the build log ...
any idea where I can read the requirements myself?
especially not given the openoffice.org-amd64 weirdness
I don't have a Debian unstable chroot :)
I'll do it, mail me,wow, you weren't kidding about the source package build taking forever
yeah, especially after I did like 5 tries of it today, every one with the translation bug
seems to build fine for me
do a debdiff between the versions to make sure
always do
its not building on a stock ubuntu system,well, the source package builds, but there is the extra mangled template stuff
it should technically be harmless, but I will try to look into it,I wrote that magic originally, for woody-compatibility; it then propagated through a bunch of Debian packages,sed's essential, you don't need to depend on it,(and it's been essential forever, so it's really ok)
what does the fb corruption look like?
lots of dots and squggles, text is partly readable,also, apt seems unable to complete the install on several packages at the moment
which packages?
^^^
they build 'em sturdy down there, apparently,those packages seem to install fine for me here
over here they install fine, but then apt wants to install them again
try apt-get clean?
that fixed it, thanks
that issue shouldn't affect upgrades from woody; I don't think that any Warty packages have the same version number as a woody package,yes, there are many such packages in that set (same version in sarge and warty)
pitti: I'm in group plugdev, it's still not working.
one difference is that some PCs have a line out which doubles as an amplified output.you were seeing that problem with opening files on a removable device also, weren't you?
removable devices had been bad for me, but it's looking much better,hmm... yes, double-clicking a JPG in a /media/ popped-up nautilus window (USB pen storage) doesn't fire up any app
I think we nailed the issue (executable permissions).question: should users installing from CD have access, by default, to all of warty/main via http by default?
it's copied into their cache already, isn't it?
hmm, good point,nono, (b) give the CD to a friend :-),ok, currently that doesn't actually work
if we are using grub only, should we turn off do_symlinks in /etc/kernel-img.conf?
update-grub still uses the symlinks to provide the default and "(old)" options,I use link_in_boot myself,kernel-img.conf(5),apt-get install kernel-package
warty-security only kicks in after gold release, right?
either gold release or FinalFreeze,pitti is beginning the Warty security review, and I think it makes sense to push at least some of those updates through warty-security to make sure it works,p-u = proposed-updates, where things live before they go into a point release,amber = tool used to install packages into the security.debian.org archive for an advisory,I'd suggest that we have a Help menu, but I think jeff would set my house afire,to-be-determined.com is available
hi
for portmap, see #505
great hack on the sound front, works perfectly here
great; I'm hoping to slip it in for preview
agreed, no-brainer
good morning
new oo.o for final?
so, just how critical was https://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1188 exactly?
not as important as the bug i'm about to file that mozilla suddenly became my default browser for urls in gaim. wtf?
you had set it to something else?.should we change the www.ubuntulinux.org/download/ content to reflect the fact that we're witholding the live CD for now?
yes, i'll ask Lu to do so
a machine where it previously worked?
it's a laptop with eth0 (wire) and eth1 (built-in ip2100)
there's no magic in there yet to try without one and fall back,in an arm-twisting sort of way,I believe 0_o = one eye wide
ping
pong
^
I think so, yes
when do you want to host the next meeting?
what is the intended arrangement?  canonical ubuntu folks, and anyone else who is interested?
yes, it's an open invite, search for consensus among board members and team members of the proposed item.how about tomorrow, at around 9am your time?
eek,ok, can do
your choice of time, whenever suits you
I'll need to put together an agenda.how about wednesday?
see RecentChanges
aha
i just want to get into a regular rhythm on that front.what time can i set for the meeting?
any time 1600 UTC or later is good for me
ok, 1600UTC it is
yeah, multi-gnome-terminal is obsoleted by modern gnome-terminal
ok, thanks
they do?  we tried to avoid that,WartyWarthog/Images,yes


poke
trying to remember if I asked if you were ppc or i386.tivo series 1, eh?.remember to firewall the tivo, eh?
yeah, series 1,h8 that,debconf should be configurable to not mail.
what kind of puppies?,awesome
yeah, its working out pretty well,we might break a bit over even since theres 8(!) puppies.,we were hoping for at least 5
and I assume you did the right thing and pre-sold based on availability, yes?
we've pre-sold some of them, yes,you can't easily sell 'all' the puppies.
good
plus, this isn't the boonies,and we know there is demand via the local club
well, you _can_ presell all of them, but then the sales (and really in any case) have to be based on actually having the puppies born/healthy/etc.  Then you sell order of pick.,cool
plus, we do something a puppy mill would never do -- genetic health gaurantees.,which is pretty much the norm with decent breeders out here
firmware blobs --> main, object blobs --> restricted
is keyspan in restricted?
long way from commuter rail here....you running apache 1.3???
on ringworld.org still :|,haven't had time to migrate,i use it at work except for one server where we have a 'legacy' module
I see no evidence in scrollback to refute your assertion.,boot it. test it.,we strive for consistancy, you know... :),that's just sick...,time to up the limit, eh? :-)
yeah, im not puttin more than 350 apache processes to the task here
about 4 more hours and I'll have an ISO... Grumble
qworst?
yeppers.
if it is, you could look up the schedule for RT deployments,i'll find it wheni get into work
that'd be cool
ive got qwest service,i think they have a list of terminals they plan on doing in the next year or so, afair
any clue how much work/money/whatever it is to deploy said RT?
no idea,http://www.qwest.com/disclosures/netdisclosure459/ <-- enjoy,i dont see the future list there tho,i'll do some more digging
they lie.  Wellington has one.
did you look at the RT list?,heh, you could hook up wireless there
no, he's down in a hole.  And (believe it or not) there are trees in the way to the firestation.what's the distance limit?  18000,or was it still12000?,1_6_000.  dammit
so the /.-ing of our mirror server convinced one of the univ networking people that we need more bw to our mirror boxes,so they are thinking of pulling a few extra gigE links to a switch they provide with gigE on it,*and* pull us around the packetshaper :)
glad to be of service. :0),slacker!
it all came up ok, yay,ive got a 8 proc amd64 machine coming :),32 gb of memory
you install gnome2.2 on it and I _will_ drive out there to slap you.. :))
hahha,it wont have X on it,but i might do it just for the visit.
must remember to head _east_ one of these vacations...
hehe,yeah, we've gone west the last two times,actually, to be more exact, california.,you dork!.how goes?,i spent the last hour and a half mucking with java deps, now im working on mplayer and friends.
looking at 1620 (hwclock stall)
ahh,i'll be back in the office RSN,we can troubleshoot this afternoon if you want
that'd be good.
btw, you around?
yep
you pinged the other day? (i only just got to a computer since friday)
I pinged a few minutes ago.did you make a usplash package?,its ok
please ensure that you have the dependencies on lsb-base correct when you upload init scripts
please read the update I posted to your bug,lsb-base is part of base,all the sysvinit stuff depends on it
i have it installed. you haven't ensured that i have the correct version
they're already all done is the problem,though, I suppose we may be able to script it,btw, the new initscripts uncovered a bug -- acpi-support loads before acpid.  however, acpid loads the modules for acpi, which acpi-support needs to grep the battery status.what email address do I assign it to?,(the acpi-support bug)
just put thom in the field, bugzilla will do the rest,already on the wiki


right click on the desktop is not working for me
nautilus manages the desktop ? the icons are displayed ? opening a dir on the desktop works ?
nothing,hi,ok thanks.are the wifi / battery percentages disabled by default now?
apparently no, they should ?
correct,great work on the gnome packages, thank you!
yes, apparently they are the same ... why ?
superb work last night
thanks
what format are the app icons in?
png most of the time
size?.svg ok?
let me check,the icon is a 48x48 png file, I've not tested with a svg one, but it should work
can you confirm eagle-usb has been added to the ship or base lists?,good call, thank you


anybody else seeing fb corruption during boot?,gdm / x are coming up fine but my console is b0rked
which video card?
no, it's my home desktop
i remember fb broken on that laptop and iirc it was an ati too. perhaps it's just the kernel fb driver that is broken. we should give it a shot after we sync 2.6.8
yo!
i suggest a mosedt 20 to 30%
this is for first-time install
i understand it's for first-time install.. if i had my speakers on at 70% i would have issues with the neighbours ;),possibly.. they will start commenting on my work: "oh no.. he is installing ubuntu again" <g>
maybe we can have a sound-levels test during installation? start low, and rise?
if we switch to a GUI installer for hoary, i think we can easily integrate it.,or otherwise doing it at a later stage.. but yes i think it's doable.also for people installing from a modem?,not necessarely.. if we add the http stuff no...
it would be nice to have the "fetch latest updates" as an option during the install
option = question?
would have to be
as it is now after the install we suggest the http lines for main/restriced and universe as we agreed via email and we force security updates,that's more complicate yes..,our installation is already big enough...
good day today so far, lots of catching up. how's dannemark?
if you declared renaming time 2 days ago i would have love you more :),who isn't? ;),isn't thom the one that likes to slice his fingers? ;).would be an option to use #ubuntu-meeting ?.since it's already logged?
good idea :-)
:-).can you add at which time the meeting will be held and who is supposed to partecipate?
will do
morning ,oh yeah! my pillow won a couple of rounds during a big fight :-)
too much information, dude
do you want to answer to that bug? ;).or can i leave it open for the glory?
would make a good item in your .sig :-)
for our team :-),good morning :-),you could renice it to -20
that typically means that apt is seeing multiple packages with the same version number which are actually distinct,or else a broken pinning configuration.anything funny in /etc/apt/sources.list or /etc/apt/preferences?
there's something definitely screwy with the archive
stock Warty,apt-get install `debootstrap --print-debs ...`,it doesn't work to have both warty and unstable in sources.list,that's what hoary is for
what kernel are you running?,#268154, yeah, reassign that bug one more time! <g>
for some reason, deity@ doesn't seem to get notification when a bug is reassigned
it so did :p
well, it wasn't in my mailbox, and the bug report was,that's normal if you have two video cards...
just one
add --vendor and --model,that is, get rid of --format and replace it with --vendor and --model,most likely it's seeing another device and considering it a video card,ahh
vendor-id is useful, if you remember to only look at class=03xx :p
file that as a bug in bugzilla and assign it to daniels
done
sabdfl: adduser <you> plugdev,no, it does not,I think it gets the name as a string from sysfs
the string's different,looks like seb uploaded evo, and the new gtkhtml -- but the new gtkhtml packages aren't in ubuntu-desktop, the old ones are, and *of course* they conflict,update ... evo 1.5.94.1-1ubuntu1 is in the archive right now,not to mention dirty
fixing suspend with radeonfb?
allegedly so
negotiable
try lsusb ... they tend to show up on there.what ACPI is in it?  does it have latest madwifi CVS in it?
stock ACPI, madwifi I think is a release, not CVS,2.6.8.1 isn't broken for me, no,that's the sort of feedback I was looking for a week ago when I asked for testers on sounder@ :-P,no
I quite like it <g>  it uses the right arch, tla, aptitude, etc. options
it also writes files into your homedir AS ROOT :-P
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ubuntu_Linux
could you make the warning on that page a bit scarier?,like DON'T REPORT BUGS IF YOU DO THIS
like that? :p
better, thanks :-),we really ought to have an ubuntu-base task
I'd prefer ubuntu-base and ubuntu-desktop packages ... that way when people do a warty->hoary they get the new stuff, rather than having to manually do that silly command.are the kernel-image packages supposed to be still in the archive?
they're in universe
ah... hmm, maybe I haven't actually tried a warty kernel in a while then (I'd forgotten about that odd s/kernel/linux/ thing ... I'll have another play)
no reason not to have both a metpackage and a task


yow
did you see my comment about base-config/sudoers?
yes
I plan to change sudo to put 'Defaults !lecture,tty_tickets' in the standard sudoers file it creates in its postinst, and in base-config just append to the sudoers file. Sound good?
i was just about to ask if that was the best way ;-),so yes, sounds good
ok, done; now for shadow </scared>
hacking sulogin felt /so/ wrong
I'm sure we're going to get a lot of hate mail about this change, you know ...,we need some documentation of the whole thing somewhere too
yeah.i hope in expert mode you'll get the choice?
probably not right now since everyone sent me hate mail about base-config's priority handling so it's forced to high,hey, sulogin worked
just reverted acpid
thanks, attempting another sounder 7 build now
remind me how to get d-i to select the "copy all debs to disk" udeb?
boot with anna/choose_modules=archive-copier,and remember to boot with KEEP_DEBS=yes on the first reboot
um, current sounder daily seems well and truly unhappy,well, that would work, but a bit of robustness is never a bad thing :-).any thoughts on what can be done about APIC? even to the extent of user education so they know what to try if they do get random freezes?
it's in the help screens; beyond that I honestly don't know
it's not really documented that apic is what they want, though?
YES
*nod*.when is the daily cd build? 6am or so?,i think pbbuttonsd has a library, i believe.i'm assuming mdz means _initial_ install in #467; is taking a similar approach as scrollkeeper reasonable do you think?
was thinking about it, but not entirely sure I want to overload that mechanism
$PYTHON /usr/lib/$PYTHON/compileall.py -q $i
can hardly divert python :-)
not planning to; just divert the script to a trivial one that returns true
ugh
not saying i like it,it's a better short term fix than trying to rewrite every postinst
what happens to maintainer scripts that use python modules between the diverted-so-doesn't-happen compileall and the point when base-config actually does it?
python modules get compiled at first use,the postinst is just an optimisiation, it's not necessary
I guess ... ok, fine by me as long as you do it :)
oh, what's the status of amd64 cds? should the current daily even remotely work?
functional; apparently grub issues,so, what are you trying to do, if not install a bootable system? :)
i have a bootloader already, since this dual boots with i386 ubuntu,yeah, known problem. it's fixed in the archive
any errors during base-config?
no,my only showstopper now is that grub-installer doesn't add noapic to menu.lst :/
there've been fixes for that upstream, I can import them, probably not for this release though,the same goes for one of my laptops and acpi=off
you and me and everyone else,too,but you can't colour stderr!.can we shoot at d-i ducks?
*bang*,OH GOD YES, I've wanted that for at least three years,oh, hey, it's just occurred to me why the framebuffer might be horked on amd64.I assume it requires roughly the same setup as on i386? vga16fb/vesafb module, that kind of thing?,well, that's only done on i386 at the moment ;)
heh
what does 'dpkg-architecture -qDEB_HOST_GNU_CPU' say on amd64?,let me know if that works; may take a day or two to make it into dailies,what, on Unix too now? didn't know that
yeah, it got fixed up relatively recently in apache2,fwiw, gnome-volume-manager kills itself when hal goes away
no, it's hald segfaulting, haven't investigated yet
hrm, let me look.where/when does hal segfault?
it was in the middle of walking /sys, had just reached wlan0/beacon or something like that
i think we're about to take that to the limit on wednesday :-),um, looks like your last change has broken base-installer,"eval: 3: Syntax error: word unexpected (expecting ")")
uh, I did test that ... what architecture?,incidentally, how do you know? I haven't built new CDs with the new base-installer yet
local mirror and netboot
can you reboot, stick 'set -x' at the top of /var/lib/dpkg/info/base-installer.postinst when it appears, and look at /var/log/syslog to see where it's failing?
sure
I'm pretty sure that if you change 'COMPONENTS="main restricted"' to 'COMPONENTS="main,restricted"' in /var/lib/dpkg/info/base-installer.postinst, it'll be fine
hrm, i'm getting asked what kernel to install now,i still get asked whether i want to install grub on the mbr, dunno whether that needs/wants to change,and what /is/ the difference between London and Belfast? :-)
I'd like to know,I think glibc is deluded.can you add mdz to the set of people allowed on little as well as to the cdimage group?
glad to hear it, since i'm suffering too :-)
thanks mate ;)
any time
amen
current sounder image
ok.were you planning on sleeping?
no, there seems little point now
you went outside, you fool,oh, but wouldn't it be cool if it were
well, i'd pass on the nuclear bomb, or the biowarfare... ;-),see, that's cruel :-).figured out what the cdimage dir structure is gonna be?
/cdimage/releases/4.10/preview/, unless anyone argues; I don't know quite what the structure under that's going to be, but probably install/ and live/
thought it was 1400 UTC?,let me know when it's done so i can kick the bit torrent stuffs
will do
torrent time?
oh, damn, yeah, go for it,hit the torrents
when did that change? heh :-)
some time back ...
what was the question? (I have a few weeks while firefox builds)
"where's the signing key for Release.gpg"
same minute :-)
PCMCIA card, problems they go 'way
yerk ;-),but all bugs are your fault ;-)


how is amd64 looking?
I see the same problem as everybody's seeing; wrt amd64, I've been spending most of the day sleeping and recovering from Oxford.,I need to whack ia32-libs into shape (and preferably amd64-libs too) and then get the new gcc in together with doko.,I can try.,that seemed to fix it, thx,it's trivial to check, though
kernel-headers-`uname -r` should do,indeed
I don't think you can ever get a corrupted image by rsyncing at the wrong time.
probably not, but I could get yesterday's :-)
well, true. :).vim-crack ?,896 seems ok, the TEXTREL segment is only present on i386,so, technically, it's a policy violation, but we can ignore it, as it's correct on amd64..fwiw, on MOSX apps, if you are in a "dangerous" application, you have the lock in the bottom right.. would something similar work?
that'd be neat, something to look at for Hoary maybe
nautilus could send "window closed" messages onto the dbus? ;),load-testing to see whether an a2 setup with php seems to be safe or not.
ping
pong.,I'm aware that grub is broken, I didn't want to upload the version I changed, because I haven't had the time to test it yet.,awake?fb.awake?
herbert will be adding amd64 support to that package shortly,regarding grub, it doesn't seem to be built on amd64 yet,eek,that's what happens when I try to build it on warty/amd64.missing build-dep?,installing ia32-libs-dev lets the build succeed,you wrote this in the changelog, but did not actually add it to debian/control :-)
ew, ok, thanks.are you making sure that the amd64 kernel has the bd_claim patch applied?
all arches have it
ok, cool.,2.6.7 in ubuntu does not have it, IIRC
right, this is Herbert's 2.6.8.1 kernel,no, but it will be shortly
only if they hotplug it.
they should still get a rather loud hum regardless
not if you have a good sound card. :),I would be very interested if anything breaks. :)
you tested it already?
up to a 100 for the later versions, though,2.6.8.1-amd64-k8 seems to be happy here.
here too, thanks
b-c + some upgrade-only stuff?
my concern is that if it is going to be based on base-config, those base-config changes need to go into the release,restricted <proper subset> non-free,we agreed in Oxford that firmware stuff was OK for main,which is one of the differences between debian non-free and warty restricted
ok, I didn't pay attention or wasn't present, then.,but not at full speed.
I only have a 100mbit switch
what about externally loaded firmware?
all firmware gets included in the kernel package, so that it is matched to a specific version of the driver,it gets installed in /usr/lib/hotplug and loaded by the firmware loader, but it's part of the kernel source package
ok..pwc got removed with 2.6.8, didn't it?  Or rather, is in 2.6.9 somewehere?
it did? oh
according to lwn.net, at least,  iirc.how is the amd64 installer ATM?
today's daily was broken, so I haven't tried it,oh, I think I skipped over amd64 status.what remains on your todo list?  openoffice.org?
OOo, some mozilla stuff is still not fixed (thunderbird at least, epiphany was broken because I gave seb a broken patch)
please file bugs in bugzilla so that I can keep up easily
ok, I'll file bugs and grab them myself?
yes, you can assign them to yourself when opening them,it's just easier for me to see the status at a glance that way
you know, if you don't feel like inventing something, ubuntu1, ubuntu2, ubuntu3, etc would work. ;)
night
we could call it "Ubuntu", rather?.ping -c www.n-n-y.c && sensible-browser http://www.n-n-y.c/Warty/Start ?
do I even need to point out the failure conditions? :-),yes
ooo-amd64 is uploaded now, btw.  It probably needs a bit of NEW love, though
it probably needs 6 hours to build, too :-)
nope, builds in about 30 secs.,as you have to prepare the package on i386
hmmm?.does it use the binaries built for the i386 deb or something?
you seemed unhappy about OOO, or?
it is obviously not ideal, but as long as the procedure is documented,then I can live with it for Warty.so is it actually built from a different source package on amd64?
yes,I'm not happy with it either, but I don't think implementing multiarch $RSN is a real option.
we don't need multiarch, we just need ooo to build and work on amd64 :-)
have you seen any of the NX stuff?  It would be cool to have a nice and working terminal server for hoary.
right now, Hoary is a place where I make lists, and little more :-)
if you think "terminal server which leaves MS in its tracks" is a good goal, chalk it up? :)
go ahead and add it to the list with a question mark
_ew_, another OOo upload?  I should do the amd64 OOO dance, then..
yes, once i386 is built.howa bout some oo.o love?
working on it.,it will take a little to upload.. I should probably just put it on my USB key and upload from university rather than using my puny 640Kbit uplink
640kbit? that's hefty.what's the ETA for oo.o-amd64?
uploading now, my laptop decided to throw a fit, which caused me a little bit of trouble.
at what time will the upload be complete?
six minutes to chinstrap
thanks,the new temporary artwork :-),working fine here
what loads pcm-oss in your setup?
/etc/modprobe.d/alsa-base
should I just upload OOO when I've verified that the fix is correct?
no, the change can wait until after preview,at the time of the freeze, yes
should I upload the new ooo with the .desktop fixes?.around?
yes
the OOO fix I did seemed to work; want an upload?
not quite yet
ok, tell me when, then.,screen's choice of C-a clearly beats C-w to close windows.,at least for those of us who has been using macs since they came around,true, but then one can experience a bumpy ride, at least. :).perhaps you can answer vrln's question about security?,synaptic feels cluttered, IMHO,changing kernels on the road is seldom wise. :)
should I try to upload again since I got no .upload file?
sure; if there's no .upload, it either got deleted, or it was never uploaded.how is usplash going?
we have usplash packages :)
after setting up vesafb, I get: Starting Ubuntu..., delay while initrd runs, nice animation, then some kernel messages overwrite parts of it, then a black screen with scrolling text while the animation continues to play only in the center of the screen
try sticking -- /bin/echo "0 0 0 0" > /proc/sys/kernel/printk -- in mountvirtfs just after the -- domount proc "" /proc -- line.also, does your kernel cmdline have console=tty1?,actually, with the console=tty1 option, you may not need the echo line,you *do* still need the echo line
I tried with console=tty1; no difference
are you getting initscript messages? or kernel messages?,if kernel, you need to add the echo line I mentioned.you get initscript messages after init switches to runlevel 2?
correct
at what point does gdm load on your system? Sxx in runlevel 2?
ubuntu default
which is what?
rc2.d/S99
what happens when you move gdm forward to S01 (that is where it runs on my system)?,It doesn't use the logger or anything like that, so it doens't actually depend on anything in runlevel2
no change
still blanks to black?
it's a stock ubuntu desktop install.you have the same laptop that I do; you don't see this?
I don't,I was actually looking at rhgb.yes, we could... does tinyx run on vesa?
it uses fbdev, at least the way I've built it in the past
why are we making all kinds of exceptions for non root /usr?  just make it a requirement...
well, we also want it to be simple and start up very quickly
agreed.Is there a reason we haven't sync'd to 2.6.8 yet?
yes, we're expecting a custom package
most of the wifi stuff was taken out of the newer hals,the wifi stuff had lots of problems with lots of wifi cards (not just atheros),we seem to be using an older version which still has the old wifi stuff in hal,yeah, its an intermittant problem,I was fine for a while too
how about you?  what are your normal waking/working hours?
working hours --- normally 9am'ish to 5pm'ish EST
thanks.ping?
pong
can you take care of #501 today?
sure thing
cool, thanks
#501 is done, the package is in ~npmccallum/UploadQueue
no need to wait on it, thanks,I thought autorun prompted the user before executing the program,why disable it, then?  that seems safe enough
I was just honoring jdub's request :).jdub: roll back the gvm autorun change?
if nobody uses it, I don't suppose it matters either way,ping
yeah, I actually caught it just after the upload,I've been waiting for the source package to enter our archive before a new upload
oh, gvm learns about mounts through hal?  I thought it just noticed /etc/mtab or /proc/mounts
hal is the center for everything
all hail hal.if hal were lying about something, it couldn't cause gvm to do anything untoward, could it?.right, but anyone can change that, can't they?
we'll need to raise the kernel logging threshold to clean up the boot process, where does debian traditionally do that?
/etc/sysctl.conf.is there a way to dump the hal properties for a specific device, similar to what you get in the "Advanced" tab in h-d-m, but from the command line or otherwise cut-and-pasteable?
there is, I just don't remember off the top of my head, let me check,lshal
ah, thanks
though, not for a specific device, but you can cut and paste
no, udebs don't have init scripts,that is what I suspect, but I urge you to find confirmation
I'm fixing the grub splash thing now (removing grub splash),however, there is a bug in the old package that makes update-grub be called *before* splash.xpm.gz is removed, therefore it doesn't update the config properly on removeal,please advise :)
hmm?  I thought the image was shipped as part of the ubuntu-artwork deb
yes, but we are removing grub-splsah
if it is part of the deb, it will be removed during the unpack phase, and then when postinst runs it should be gone already
I just tested it, and it didn't work on my system,when ubuntu-artwork is upgraded, it *does* run update-grub, but before the splash file is removed, then it removes the splash file,the dangling referance to that file will cause grub to freak out
hmm, didn't we talk about this already?,the way that ubuntu-artwork does its postinst/postrm is not correct,#501,you marked it fixed, but it doesn't look like the changes are in -14
argh, I'll get it fixed
added some notes to the bug with my thoughts; I thought I had already said more, but either I wrote it outside of bugzilla, or maybe commented on the wrong bug or something
portmap should start in S and stop in 0 and 6, but nothing else, correct?,the rules file is pretty funky regarding the initscript
portmap (5-2.2) unstable; urgency=low
yeah, I was just reading those actual bug reports,basically we need a test to see if portmap is already running and then exit gracefully,in the initscript itself.is that resolution for portmap ok with you?
I am not absolutely sure that it is correct for it not to start in 2-5.what did you find in those bug reports?
I just added more info to the bug report
forcing the terminal type is not the right solution,what you need to do is fall back gracefully if _any_ of those commands fail
I know,I'm not going to force the terminal type
ok, I must have misunderstood what you meant when you said we needed to filter out the TERM=screen setting
I just meant we need to check for it, but we should just check for a tput failure instead.what do you want the script to do if it can't use tput? show [ ok ] /[fail]  at the beginning of the next line?
it should just do something sane that doesn't require tput
take a look at bug #1010 and tell me what you think if that output
fine with me; it doesn't matter much what it looks like as long as it works.all of the packages in desktop, or all in supported?,you should almost be able to install every package in supported at once
we may want to talk about NetworkManager as well on the hoary timeline :)
it's on the proposed feature goal list on the wiki,I think probably the easiest way to incorporate some peer review would be for you to send your diffs to thom as you go
thom: np
generating diffs for the ones which are already done might be trickier; where you still have a copy of the old package, you can use debdiff.which?
I had a wierd md bug after I installed the new kernel,I'll file something
ok, once it's filed, send an email to Herbert; he doesn't have a bugzilla account,Herbert Xu <herbert@gondor.apana.org.au>,madwifi is in linux-non-free-modules, as I said above
sorry, missed it.on just a normal boot?
on an upgrade
did it fail to bring down the interface?,wierd.on your thinkpad?
on every system I have tried today
I had a strange problem with my writer not working... I wanted to test a clean install and it worked fine after that... it was very strange though
it keeps claiming buffer underruns, regardless of conditions
is it a scsi drive or atapi?
an atapi drive in a USB enclosure
did you try a new usb cable?
no, but I will
btw, http://pydirectfb.sourceforge.net/ if we want to do usplash in python and directfb,good, I've been working with thom on the initscript stuff today,I'll have another batch in tonight,with this batch it *should* be all of warty main
hey, what is the status of the openoffice.org changes?
the icon names are done, but for some reason when I do debuild -S it screws up translations
thanks, have you looked at the splash screen?
I'm doing that now.There are a couple of approaches to take with openoffice splash screen: 1. change the image (remove debian logo and possibly add ubuntu logo) and keep the file names (openintro_debian.bmp) 2. do number 1 and change the file names (involves changing code), are you ok with #1 only?
#1 is fine with me,seems like the least intrusive, given how little time we have
ok, I'll have something later this evening.  Do you want an ubuntu branding? or just standard ooo branding?
what about having both ubuntu and debian logos there?
it may be a little tight.also, what about the "this ooo developed in cooperation with debian" disclaimer?
I think that language might be required by the ooo guys or something
jdub: I'll see if I can get both logos on there,jdub: how is this -- http://www.natemccallum.com/uooo.png
jdub did
jdub: I'm totally cool with waiting if you guys are.  We don't have time to build ooo to properly test it anyway
the icon changes are ready to upload?
let me see if I'm still having the translation problem -- if I'm not, they should be ready to upload,I'm having the debuild -S translation problem on a clean ubuntu install
what is causing it?.something in the clean target?
I have no idea, I have the same problem with the ssh package and another package as well (i forget which one),To see what is happening see #1188, I attached a diff
if you can't find out what's going wrong, ask someone else here to do the upload; it needs to happen soon and I can't do it right now
mind if I change the default value for VERBOSE to "no" in the initscript package (drastically less output)?
right now? yes, I would rather you didn't change it until after preview
ok, didn't know if you wanted it before preview.  I'll wait.you have an R300 in your thinkpad, don't you?
I have a mobility M7, which is like a radeon 7500
oh, I have the Fire GL something or other which is the M10 I think,its either R300 or R350, but it works great with ubuntu
here?
yes
have you investigated those cups issues?
not yet, but I can do that now if you want those higher priority
what do you have on your todo list right now?
I'm recording the audio theme,then mostly some bugs, I was going to tackle bugs tomorrow and sat
ok, yes, please make the bugs a higher priority for the moment; the issues have come up multiple times on the list
sure thing, I'll look at them now
thanks
btw, I think I'm on the ubuntu-users list 2x, not sure how,I get every message double.is that jdub/mako?,regarding bug (#1265), it doesn't look like cups actually allows you to change the name of a printer.  You have to remove and add a new one (at lesat in the web interface).
so the bug is that gnome-cups-manager lets you try?
basically yes,we can just make that text box non-editable
if there is a straightforward way to disable that, let's do it
its just changing a flag on the textbox
are you able to reproduce that problem where a printer changed from local to IPP?
I tried once last night and wasn't able to, but I'll purge it and try again,the one cups bug is fixed (I uploaded the switch from GtkEntry to GtkLabel)
the ${//} substitution
lifeless: I'll fix it now, its actually an upstream bug,all those cups bugs should be closeable, pending freeze break approval; patches are available in the bug reports


A South African skydiver survived a 3,500 meter (11,500 ft) plunge after her parachute failed to open and lines broke on her reserve chute, a local skydiving club said Monday.
turns out starting acpid in rcS causes problems
what sort of problems?
we start it before /var gets cleaned. so the socket goes away.are you happy for me to upload sulogin, by the way?
yes
is totally rad laptop support a feature goal?
depends on your next question :-)
netapplet is utterly rad...,http://tech9.net/rml/log/2004082401
looks like a totally rad hoary feature :-)
and indeed http://www.nat.org/2004/august/,i *knew* you were gonna say that
how does the mozilla situation look?
i got caught up in ddcprobe/xresprobe on amd64; just cooking dinner then will look
I don't seem to have notes about your schedule; what hours are generally good for you as far as meetings and the like?
i'm usually awake and working 10am-6pm (currently GMT+1)
I use it everywhere
should we do it by default?,-firefox building now,the two current in our bugzilla both appear to backport cleanly, patched ver is building now *shrug*
are we not affected by the other 5 in debbugs?
it scares me, but looking at the amount of work it'll take to beat these patches into shape, and the fact that backports of the rest are gonna get harder and harder, we might have to go for it. i really don't want to tho,means we need to pull libcairo  into supported from universe
mozilla is not known for having a sane approach to security.ping?
yo?
damn if I remember...mozilla?
0.9 builds at least under warty,so firefox 0.9.3 builds and runs just fine, with the addition of libcairo1 and dependents to supported
did you happen to notice in your chunderbird adventure _why_ it build-depends on csh and whether it would be straightforward to fix?
nod. can we set it just for things running on :0 ?
I think it's only global,I'm thinking of remapping my F1 key to be escape as well
it's in the desktop seed?,under hardware/architecture support on the wiki
if I wanted to make some packages publicly available for download, where would I do that?  rookery?
do these new kernel's have the latest acpi goodness?
it has a few acpi fixes, but I don't think it merges the latest post-2.6.8 acpi patch or anything like that
ipw2100 works, i still have acpi suspend
interesting; ipw2200 isn't working for me
acpi_ibm might be nice to have.strange. herbert used the latest ipw2200 drop?
yeah, 0.4
http://bkernel.sf.net/tmp/ibm-acpi-0.3.tar.gz
what I see with ipw2200 is that it seems to associate for a split-second and then revert to 00:00:00:00:00:00,I can see it switch to the correct channel and AP
very strange. i just looked, briefly, and i can't see any reports of ipw2200 failures obviously caused by 2.6.8.1 ,agree with sync of tetex-base
have you tried an amd64 warty install?
is gonna hate me for #886
886 is resolved...?,more apache2 vulnerabilities? gah
it probably shouldn't be, actually.
so in 886, you said it works fine in Warty, and then proposed syncing 3 packages? :-/
i said it worked once recompiled. 
yeah, so can't we just recompile it instead? ;-)
we _can_, yes
which packages did you recompile in your test?
ok. we _have_ to sync apache2. i strongly recommend that we sync subversion and php4 at the same time
the apache2 changelog scares the hell out of me.why subversion and php4 at the same time?
subversion relies on at least one of the changes in -11 (the sticky bit fix to apr)
all three of those seem to have ubuntu-specific versions
the change in apache2 is the same as 2.0.50-8,i'm happy to sync across just the security related fixes, but i don't think that's a good option given that we can trivially sync the changes. 
I think we need to break down the issues here...I didn't understand why we needed to sync new versions of 4 packages in order to fix something which was apparently rectified by recompiling libapache2-mod-python,so apache2 needs security fixes.libapache2-mod-python could be recompiled, but there's other stuff we want to sync?,subversion  in sid seems to be identical, modulo changelog,yes, let's handle them one at a time.let's do apache2 first; you want to request a sync?
ok. the issues are this. -11 fixes three security problems.
I am 100% OK with those changes
 #264645 can be a denial of service. 
that's ok with me too,I think I would in fact be OK with -11,-12 is "gee, wouldn't it be nice to start messing with the default config files about now?"
not sticlty true. it modifies the default site, and ensures that the documentation works,for php, i'm happy to recommend we just bring across the changes for session files
by all means,I'm going to eyeball the -12 changes,ok, if you're confident, let's do apache2 -12,go ahead and send the request
will do
so do we know for certain what the breakage is with mod-python?  I thought we missed out on the ABI skew that Debian apache2 underwent
we did. ,i'll check into exactly what the breakage is on monday
could be a lot worse; at least it's reproducible ,I browsed a bit, but didn't try opening a tab,opening new tabs works fine for me
i think, as i said, we should just change pcmcia-cs to 'always' and have done with it
I agree; please go ahead,I think 'medium' is appropriate, as I commented in bugzilla.what's different about your amd64 that breaks firefox tabs?.do you have tab extensions installed or anything?
this is i386,brand new install this morning
does your X40 power off correctly?
yes
damn you
*g*.your t42 doesn't?
no, and neither does nathaniel's,Bug#1055
please send him a new keyboard,about 10-15, iirc.uh, doesn't your T42 have bluetooth?
does it?
certainly my x40 does.what happened to your perl hotplug?
I may have, er, installed over it,so I end up with a 0 that is != another 0
er, sorry?
I'm bitwise-anding something with 0 and not getting 0
if you stick what you have in arch, i can take a look when it's not 01:20 :-)
putting something in arch is harder than fixing the bug :-P
*chuckle*,nice,g'morning,*nod*
we have; there is now an 'unmount device' [jargon warning]  option in the context menu,but the user will never find it
if they're using it to eject a cdrom already, why not keep that?
because we've buried it,Mark did not want the icons on the desktop
disagree. the icons are in the computer. 
they didn't go to the computer in the first place to access it, and the computer icon did not react when they used the device, and they've never seen this icon under computer before...,that should be gone with the new kernel
oh, cool,i'm not an obsessive kernel spew watcher ;-),well, i have no bugs, so i might as well :-)
npmccallum: ok, you guys work together to review and test what has been done so far, and make sure that the ongoing work has a minimal chance of new bugs
is there any chance we can get acpi_ibm and a recent ACPI drop? :-)
it's possible; let's discuss it on the list and CC herbert
there's a crazy, horrible script that munges your X config,i think that's a yes
hmm, encountered a bug in the new xscreensaver,ifs appears to be disabled :-P
hey, i just do what i'm told,that was the thought,*g*,i still got the device mapper spew on amd64
during evms activation?
i imagine during devicemapper activation, but i'd have to reboot to check,ARH!,hal runs as user hal
and rightly so,hal is, however, in group plugdev
still not umounting. hrm,yes, that's the alsamixer issue
what did I miss with glide?
control had just i386 in architectures for libglide2-dev, but you'd enabled the build of that package on any arch
ah
probably a good thing
ping?
ack
still here?
wasn't, am now
do you have an sk98lin nic?
no, i have an nforce3 board - sk98lin's are only on via amd64 mobos
ok, was hoping maybe you could help test the autodetection issue.  I have an nforce board as well
i'll make sure to get a via when i upgrade then :-)
you'd think so, but it doesn't work for the thinkpad buttons :-)
true dat.i wonder if gnome specificly excludes those thinkpad buttons for some reason?
I have no messages pending in my jabber window,it says you are away
gaim claims to me that you're available
yes,samba is very sane in their release management
what's the status of 986? 
it's in elmo's hands
stopped pogoing? :-)
mumble mumble circuit breaker
heh,i'm just about to do a netboot install
any issues?
not with amd64,openoffice worked fantasticly, gnome looks good apart from a silly bug that looks like upstream  brokenness on amd64
what's the silly bug?
#1221
only on the netboot install?
yes,you have a login on little and you're in the cdimage group
but it works for you when you test manually after install?.you're getting xresprobe 0.4.3 at install time?.your laptop has an i810, right?.maybe related to the change in 0.4.6?.does it work when you try it after the installation is complete?
it fails during base-config, but if i purge and reinstall it works
any output in base-config.log?
nothing that i can see
must be a different bug,I guess you'll need to reinstall, edit /usr/sbin/xresprobe and set XRESPROBE_DEBUG=yes,fortunately, there's a nice wide window between xresprobe install and xserver-xfree86 postinst
a freakin' huge one, given this is coming over the network :-)
ping?
yo
hoorah.can we get the .torrent files alongside the images on archive.ubuntu.com?
probably, yes
working for me so far, thanks.does the tracker write out any fun statistics?
cool,ok, new torrents being generated, i'll add them to the tracker in a sec,it's 9C currently ;-)
http://weather.yahoo.com/climo/USCA1107_c.html.why, you coming to visit?
yeah, most likely grabbing a few days there before apachecon
24?
the tv show. realtime. counter terrorist unit based in LA,he's trying to make his laptop not suck, i think
ping?
ack,scrollkeepering currrently
verrrry good
looks good to me,i have gnome,whenever you like with apache2 then :-)
you giving up? :-P.are the torrents updated?
waiting for the cd images to go into final locations,or certainly it looks like they do, and i'm unwilling to gamble right now. they don't take long, anyway
ERROR:,working now,he's using the CD as a mirror for the netboot,but the CD doesn't have all of the udebs.any idea how I get emacs shortcuts back in firefox?
you need to twiddle gnome,it uses what you have set for gnome now,(i have no idea how you do that, mind. jdub didn't know either),ah,and yeah, that makes firefuck do the right thing
thanks,I'd been using ~/.gtkrc-2.0 for that, and it doesn't seem to work anymore
do we have any suits?
works, thanks.do you have access to rince?


required some small mods to do that...,that's a london time
gst-plugins0.8 is still not built, could you check if it's ftbfsing ?,oh ok, thanks
theora is installed
thanks
it's kinda one of those assumptions - new gnome, seb uploads. :-)  You've been doing such an overkill job on it that, well...,yeah!  that's it/,epiphany-browser_1.3.8-0ubuntu3 is missing an amd64 build-dep on gcc-3.4
I've applied the patch, dunno for the rest
gdm looks to be missing a build-dep or 6...
gdm is missing a Build-Depends ? Which one ? That's ubuntu14 ... weird that Build-Depends changed .how is the gdm retry ?
successful.
could you check if nautilus is building/ftbfsing/... ?.what about nautilus/eel ... wrong Build-dep ?
fixed.,I expect that the version of the build-dep doesn't match the requirement checked in the source...
how are the GNOME builds going ? Any FTBFS ? 
you mean besides pango?
you send the build log ?
where do you want it?
could you resend on the same adress please ?,ok, thanks,ok, I got the mail, and I know where the problem is.any chance to delete an orig.tar.gz broken, or I should happen a b to the version and make a new one ?
that's an elmo question
BTW my system has droped the mail from buildd@ somewhere, I've a mail problem
could just be spam filters...
I'm checking,I've just reuploaded pango, let me know if this one is fine please
since you're the only one doing uploads, want me to just (today only special) forward you all the failures?,pango1.0....
still ftbfsing ?,seb128@canonical.com
yeah - I expect it was elmo efficiency in locking down the release for preview-release timeframe.
that's ok to upload ?
anything you can get mdz/jdub to bless is uploadable.  Otherwise, you die a horrible death,you the man.  thanks for the xchat help
you're welcome ;).do you know why galeon is not built ?
^^^
hum, galeon need an update so ?.what ?,gnome-system-tools,but that's in debian too,was working on it before the holidays IIRC, wait a few days we will sort that
I attempted to bootstrap mono, and it was FTBFS.  logs where you pointed.


you've already uploaded the biarch ones?
first biarch test succeeded :).any packages already built and uploaded with gcc-3.4?
not to my knowledge.,I want to fix grub first, as soon as that is there, base should be fully installable.do you have an i386 system nearby and could test that the patch doesn't break i386?
which patch?,ok, will do tonight..grub test still needed on i386?
no, not really.,uhm,mea culpa, version skew,if you don't upgrade g++, but only libgcc and gcc, g++ blows up,UNKNOWN


i wonder if that will happen to upgraders from woody?
any package that we're shipping the same version as woody, which is already in your cache, will have issues.... :-(.and should there initial install fetch newer bits from the net if they're there, or just install from CD?,rpm has issues...
ping.i'm going to run through it with you now, should we switch to a separate channel?,mornin'!,good work on postfix, btw
you used openoffice and fast in the same sentence??? :-).you around?,g'night.
groeten,i'm not sure that it does,here's the situation


gcc-3.3_1:3.3.4-9ubuntu1??
if the gcc packages failed to build, please send me the logs (or maybe the last 100 lines ...)
OK. one more round on ppc...,found it.
sorry, didn't see.
np.  I knew that I had a bug that had the needed info in it, just couldn't find it for a bit.. (was closed a while back..)
do you know, what probably is wrong with gcc-3.4's sonames?
no clue 
gcc-3.4 is not yet built?
ubuntu5 built on all 3 architectures
hmm, only ubuntu4 is in the archives.
any chance you added new binary packages?,what elmo said...  gcc-3.4 can't upload libgcc1..about?.which - the 24 hour delay on sending email?
pitti: yes, so we've checked the first 40 dsa's twice. doing something else now.
the issue was that I got yanked away from composing the email yesterday, and told pitti status in IRC.  He thought it was partial status (wasn't), and I was reminded of that in scrollback this morning... sorry about that.,but any work you've done on the universe packages isn't duplicate.....


that was ftbfs on ppc/amd64
why?
/usr/bin/ld: skipping incompatible /usr/lib/gcc-lib/x86_64-linux/3.3.4/../../../libc.so when searching for -lc
ok, missing ia32-libs-dev build-dependency.,I wonder why it failed on ppc, though
actually, that could just be ppc flakiness - I'll see if giving it back helpo
goodie, I don't see why it should fail on ppc (though, I haven't looked at the source, just listened to what doko's told me)
gcc-3.4 is d-w amd64-libs-dev
I'm working on it, but ia32-libs has higher priority for me atm..works now?
gcc-3.3 really gets annoyed when the build directory wasn't removed from the previous try
did the xresprobe build on amd64 die?
still awake?
now I am
figured it out...,gcc-3.[34]  now installed on amd64
yay. :).how's grub, then?
DOH.  guess I should make sure the chroot is current,eh?
that would be nice, yes. :)
I stand somewhat corrected...
grub seems to be compiling happily now.
grub is d-w the new gcc, which only helps a little since I need to freshen the chroot before things will work,yeah - gcc-3.3 needs some loving
compiling it statically (which is really the only sane way to do it, unless one wants grub to depend on ia32-libs) works.
cool,cool
is grub in PaS?,it should work on amd64 now,trivial fix,ok. :/
PaS has been adjusted, may need to be sync';ed
woo. :)
btw, newt is ftbfs on amd64: non-PIC in shlib
hm, ok, I'll look at it,sounds like it's missing "a bit" of error checking.
??
that xresprobe doesn't say "permission denied" or something
epiphany-browser also died on amd64: compiler can't create executables
huh?, that _really_ shouldn't happen..care to mail me the build log?
it points at config.log, which is gone...,if you want, I'll kick it again and not remove it..
it shouldn't need that.  If it needs ia32-libs-dev, something is fucked
missing build-depes
sounds like seb128 forgot to add a build-dep..
I'll grab it and do it.
thanks.
it b-d's gcc-3.4-base, but not the actual compiler, I guess.\
"it" being e-b?
yeah
uhm, ok.  Sounds weird.,thanks a lot.got any more fun build failures for me?
the only open mail I have right now is e-b (known) and grub (FTBFS: powerpc) --> duh...,you and the rest of the world, including me
FTBFS-wise?
missing b-d: python
does the archive handle that source1 builds package A on arch A, B, C while source2 builds package A on arch D?,;),it's frigging ugly, I do so agree.  I should bribe you and elmo with proper amounts of beer to accept it. ;).is g-v-m actually running?.will you hate me very much for the ooo-amd64 package?
does it deliver any binaries into i386?,no OO-amd64 source even.  You may live.
:),it's arch: amd64, all of it.
you may live.,that's just so that it's done before Kamion crawls out of bed, you ,now..,as a plus, it's generally before I go to bed....news on e-b front?
seb128 was going to upload it..mozilla-thunderbird built on amd64?
try adding build-depend: gcc-3.4 :-(
AAAAAAAAAAAAARGGGGGGGGGGGHHHHHHH.  Something fucks me over and _EATS_ my build-deps changes.,it's a conspiracy, I'm sure.,new version uploaded.is the new m-thunderbird happier?
chunderbert installed
yay!
is amd64-libs yours or doko's to fix?? (#1114)
either is fine, he uploaded it, though
do you have the bandwidth to do amd64-libs easily?  Or should I just deal with it?,thanks.  just need a || true on each of the grep -v's in postrm, iirc.,no.  blaming elmo doesn't always work.
can you check why geda-gschem failed to build on amd64?
why, for the same reason it failed on i386, of course..
thanks.I don't get build failures automatically, can you investigate?
oh.  let me go check
else, I'll continue to prod you about random packages. ;)
sigh.. What email?,fixed.did you ever get automated errors?,you get them.
are you filing bugs about the failed amd64 builds?,on amd64, OOo is fast. ;)
wondered how long that bait would take you... :-)
I've been off on lectures and meeting and coding up a decent terminal server solution
you around, or sleeping?
around now..do you still have a list of those somewhere?
buildd status on the wiki has many,and universe fixes are still below everything else on the plate


Oskuro, Mithrandir, rburton: good morning!
:-)
are you on there fielding the comments already? :),probably,i like "south african benevolent dictator for life"


yes, they're very useful to sudo
%patrons  theatre_tickets(+opera_glasses)
*g*
netapplet disappointed me somewhat
how so?
didn't you remove "Suspend" from the battery applet?
see Seth's post about NetworkManager on ddl?
but the nc4010 has working WiFi <g>,remember, anything's better than that toilet seat of his <g>
in this case i'm not sure i agree
and what time (GMT) did you get up? :p
hrm, yeah. that's a bug,*g*
I'm at the "need more walls to put more shelves on" stage :-/
yeah
yeah, I'm usually up by then
talk to your pet evo hacker about it :p
he does exchange stuff mostly, iirc,came up with syndicate
i'm only going if i get knocked out by being snogged by some cute thing called safron
heh,ah, you uploaded them ... that explains it then
not vim, you slag
that explains it *even more* :D.ping?.uhci, ohci or ehci?
ehci
you about?
quite possibly,sounds like a kernel problem, then
yeah, it's annoyingly hard to debug though when you can't actually get your machine to boot with it :-(
firmware for web cams?
but then why don't we have a /usr/lib/modules/$(uname -r) for the same reason?
dunno,but i think the seperation is useful,i suspect #1922 is Your Bug (tm)


hi  everyone.kamion: the trashcan applet isn't showing on auckland, any idea why?
it doesn't seem to have been built yet; the source is there but no .debs,this is the case for openssh -9 too, so I'm wondering if lamont's hilltop is down or something
what's the rsync url for the latest warty daily nowadays?
yes.hm, you actually have more folders than me?,no,the cdrom: URI needs to be in sources.list otherwise the cached copies don't work,I ran into this just yesterday,basically we do an update from the cdrom before reboot, and that sets up apt's database post-reboot properly,yeah, also an automatic cleaning issue, using /var/cache/apt/archives means that 'apt-get clean' gets rid of it,I wasn't suggesting making the CD mandatory, merely usable ...
how are we for cd size at the moment?
'bout 100MB short of the wall,but you wouldn't be able to clean it automatically,and there's a debootstrap deficiency that means it'll probably actually be 1.2GB extra during the install,I was thinking of making archive-copier not bother to copy Base (since with the cdrom-detect change, debootstrap is now pretty fast by itself)
agreed
three kernel variants
just testing the latest cd build and i have a network issue
well, I was away running installs for a while there, but what mdz said
ok, is that entirely out of scope for warty-final?
don't think so, it should be a relatively small set of changes without too much risk to non-ipw2[12] 00 systems
ok, restarted install with aero pcmcia, everything's slick, well done!
yeah, netcfg is capable of trying with no essid, seeing if it works, and only asking if it doesn't,unfortunately as far as I can tell it's not capable of doing that with the WEP key, so we have to ask,if that's accessible from iwlib, then it should be doable
#1242, ignore till you think it's the right time to improve the wifi-install,are the colours of the d-i screens customizable? (blue, grey, red, etc)
not without evil bogl-bterm hacking IIRC
who would know?
I like it,it might be worth coming up with some language about change review / mentoring / something like that, particularly for new maintainers
ok
you mean something like when you'll consider employing new staff, or the relative status of core team vs. non-Canonical maintainers (hopefully as equal as possible), or ...?
what's the difference between /lib/hotplug/firmware and /usr/lib/hotplug/firmware?
/usr/lib/hotplug/firmware's an older name I think, but it really doesn't hurt to leave it there
it might be confusing for people who stick frmware in there and then don't know why it's not loaded
it will be loaded, though, hotplug runs after /usr is mounted,but talk to mdz, I haven't touched hotplug itself, only the d-i branch where it doesn't matter either way,hm, we should put the "use free space on disk" back as a (non-default) partitioning option, I forget why I removed it in the first place
fine by me, go ahead if it's a trivial and well tested codepath.will the censors in saudi arabia agree with you?
no idea :-)
binary with source!


am I supposed to get a question about the modes I want to be available during xserver-xfree86 ubuntu7's postinst?
it depends which version of xresprobe you are using, and in any case it is possible if it fails,it is done in postinst because we need the server unpacked,just check that you will get xresprobe 0.2-2
ok, so xresprobe still fails here
ok. than we can't probe your box,yeah
seems to do the same kind of thing
i am pretty sure the option is broken. gotta go for real,we need to take a look to base-config when you have time,we need to add apt lines for CD install.
agreed, will look at it once I've finished this
if we are not in any rush i can do it tomorrow. we can just reuse contrib for universe e non-free for restriceted, and change security according to the last Bof with mdz
sure
ok.. i take the task than.,please do not release any Sounder until X ubuntu9 is around
there's no release planned until Monday week anyway
i think Sounder 8 will have to wait tuesday,i found a few interesting extra bugs in X
not this coming Monday anyway, the Monday after that
ok
you doing anything with base-config at the moment?
what's new and hot in base-config?,100MB of native package *shrug*
I can see why it's native
in today's install i noticed some errors while base-config was starting, but i could catch them,i think it was something about perl,ok..,well i can grab the errors, but my priority is to fix some more bugs in X and fix evo build-dep
it's ok, I've got the errors,aha, I see the problem,base-config needs to have entries in debian/templates for all the questions whose values it copies from the d-i cdebconf database
ahhhh i see..,i was kidding.. really
note Sounder 8 on Monday
you said that it could be moved to tuesday,i need to get ubuntu14 in
Tuesday> true, but only if I really, really have to
i have been working a shit load of hours this week and i am need to take a little break.,i will be a work monday like 5 am UTC
sure, but delayed Sounder releases mean *I* work a shitload of hours :(
it's just question of 1 or 2 hours,time that i complete the regressions and upload,if lamont fixes the buildd to do X without manual kick we are ok
as long as it doesn't mean me staying up all night and ignoring my girlfriend
do you need to release for amd64 too?,no phear
thanks for sorting #1019
well i just used Matt suggestion, but at least the system is installable,i am not sure is the rigth fix, but it works here
yeah, sure
will they be part of sounder 9 ??,mdz wa suggesting to add the module lp in /etc/modules for i386.would it be possible to add ipv6 on all arch too?
no need for a script, d-i already has a single command called register-module which does all the work.wanna get mdz to ack that addition?
do you have any pending lock on base-config?
not right now
ok i will start preparing the universe/restricted stuff for apt-setup,no problem, because in any case i can't upload. the changes will require the archive to be ready,testing now
testing which?
d-i 2.6.8,from ubuntu8 that it just hitted acukland,netinstall :),well first d-i stage is completed.. rebooting now,2.6.8 is a go for me
did base-installer do the right thing, namely install linux-image-2.6-386?
i was checking right now :-),i would say yes,and of course as dependency linux-image-2.6.8.1-686
excellent
good job :),i can't test more than this.. but it looks good to me,i just checked the reason why it was failing,i know it's not the proper fix
sure
i think we should rediscuss this LSD thing and revert it completely
it's got Mark's total backing, we're doomed
i don't think so
ping me when you get up about apt-setup; I have an evil idea
ping :-),i am testing the new base_config right now,base-config works on netinstall, and it should work 99.9% on cdrom install. the 0.1 is just because i couldn't test it live.how is that possible if it worked on netinstall?
netinstall had the full archive to play with, which still contains kernel-image-*,it won't necessarily have *used* them,but it needed apt-cache search kernel-image | grep ^kernel-image to return true :-)
did you check if base-config will keep adding all the apt lines?,otherwise i am happy with it :-)))
shouldn't affect that piece of code
ah hold on a sec.. there is no cdrom: uri in first install,there is file:///cdrom,rocking!
what's the problem with that? (bear with me, I missed it in scrollback)
the problem is that gdm restart inside X, kills X,so if you run base-config new inside X, even for testing.. it will kill you out,solution: fix gdm init script so that reload will load gdm if not running and change base-config to use relaod instead of restart
don't do that then :-),I don't think this is a bug, really ...
that's not what we are doing,i am not stopping the service,i don't remember if it was you. or someone else that told me: "never never never do any assumption",if you run it as root (su -) DISPLAY is not set,i think that's what we have to expect from users :P,you already convinced me at least 40 lines above.. bug is closed, upload deleted...,hmmm yeah,yes.. i was thinking already :-),no i was thinking that apt-setup (menu) accept the new option.,i can just talk to apt-setup via TMPFILE,yes i went trough security....ok.. i am taking a lock on base-config.. do you have anything pending before i fix the apt lines?
not for the moment, nope
do you think we should disable the test on security and just add the lines? .or do the test and show the error if the connection didn't succeed?
we definitely need some conditions, because it wants to be commented-out on CD installs with no network connectivity and uncommented if the connection works
ok ..i will do a silence test and take appropriate action
I'd appreciate the code changing as little as possible, given aforementioned merge pain
yes i am trying to keep changes to minimal,i noticed that too, but probably it's just a flag to set
flag> could be, I'd have to understand parted :-)
there must be a flag of some sort that say that a certain device can be used for lvm or not
there is, in parted
perhaps the one for RAID is not set properly or forced,almost done :-),security is done.. i am testing the fix for the duplicates,we only need to wait for the dns to be updated
wanna reverse the timestamp_timeout change while you're at it, then?
deb cdrom:[Ubuntu 4.10 _Warty Warthog_ - Unofficial i386 Binary-1 (20040908)] / unstable main restricted
ha, it started doing that without my intervention
?
(largely, anyway) - because debian-cd has started to include /dists/warty/restricted/ now and restricted is in /dists/warty/Release
ok.. gotcha (about restricted),if stuff needs to be done AFTER the first install apt-setup is not the place to look at.
this is a reconfigure thing
we will need another "hook" for base-config or something
it's acceptable to run apt-setup after the install; it's got a man page and everything
it will require a switch or something in any case = extra diversion from Debian
well, it would have to be a menu item; but it's true that apt-setup doesn't ever remove sources.list entries at the moment
exactly and it does comment out the old ones only when called via menu/apt-setup new
it's not easier, but it works :-)
well.. it removes ALL of them ;),i am keeping a lock on base-config,base-config ubuntu15 is up, but i will need a cd (even a daily) to test it completlely,since there are some differences in installing from cdrom and simulating an installation
so, do you need a new CD image then?
yes please..
it seems to have built fine
let me check.. sometimes i rsync and i don't notice stuff.yeah .. it's there.. can you check if it has base-config ubunut15?.and if not.. mind to build an iso for me to test it?
building a new one now
thanks
(the .list files are useful - you can do it with isoinfo -l too but it's more tedious)
yes .. i mirror only the .iso
the idiom is 'isoinfo -lR -i whatever.iso'
i see.. i was RTFM ;)
hm, might need to do a 20040909.2 anyway, just noticed kernels on non-i386 are screwed
did you change something in base-config priority?
no
do we have a simple way to build cd locally?
not really, sorry,I tend to pick apart an existing ISO
i am going with another "blind" upload.. i will need you to rebuild the cd after
usual procedure is: mount ISO, copy tree, copy in package you want, update Packages file by hand, update Packages.gz, update /dists/warty/Release, run "mkisofs -r -V 'Ubuntu 4.10 i386 Bin-1' -o warty-i386-hacked-1.iso -cache-inodes -J -l -b isolinux/isolinux.bin -c isolinux/boot.cat -no-emul-boot -boot-load-size 4 -boot-info-table new-i386"
ok.. it looks relatively simple
standard mistake I make is forgetting to change Filename: in Packages
oh.. i just removed the old entry and replaced it with a dpkg-scanpackages output,i will have to upload another base-config,testing on real cd is way different than on simulated installation,other little bugs are coming up
tart :P
are you still around?
how did choose-mirror manage to work?
thanks for reassigning the ppc thingy... i was waiting for you to wake up and ask :-).when you updated base-config & Co, did you also update choose-mirror?
yes, as you saw :),if the stuff that adds archive.ubuntu.com used the same framework as the normal ftp/http questions rather than being a totally independent thing stuck on the end of apt-setup, it would be a lot better
complain with cdrom installation :(
EPARSE
the main loop is not entered at all when installing from cdrom
like it or not, it's our default
i don't complain but i can't use the same framework,so do i...,i was told to do so.. by sabdfl and mdz...,i understand what you mean... but than even on CD install we need to ask for a mirror,sorry.. i was sure you did it already :).we will have to rebuild tomorrow at release time, don't we?
certainly,I was kind of hoping for the morning's automatic build to be what we release so that we have as much testing time as possible, but that may be a pipe dream
yes :-).is it already on archive?
yes
cool..
did base-config work properly in general?,well, no, I mean archive.ubuntu.com/security.ubuntu.com handling
aptitude starts to install another big bunch of packages,rock!,we will manage :-),if someone can kick some bw to auckland,booting i386 now,hmm ok. i haven't noticed it before,i am almost there,mdz: i386 is GO here too!,GO GO,ehehe,exactly my point :-)
procmail or similar?
yes.. i am really searching for something simple to setup and maintain.do you think you can send a .procmail example?,a complex one would be fine to see different tricks
I can mail you my .procmailrc, I guess ...
if you can.. otherwise don't worry
sent
rocking!.to which email address did you send the file?,i didn't get anything here
fabbione@fabbione.net
i didn't get anything here...
2004-09-20 16:17:22 1C9Pur-0008PV-00 => fabbione@fabbione.net R=lookuphost T=smtp H=trider-g7.fabbione.net [212.242.190.82]  C="250 Ok: queued as 593354F1B"
that's the error :-)
the .procmailrc was an attachment, I guess file choked on it?
could be... but i need to understand why,i never had this problem before with attachments
see Markus_'s comments, one for you maybe? perhaps the serial mouse driver doesn't show up in /dev/input/mice?
actually the same day :-),at least the mail to -announce ;)
?,it's entirely possible that it will have at least some GNOME components
ah,you have plenty of nice udebs in http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/main/l/linux-source-2.6.8.1/,let see if they work first :-),i am off for a while.. let me know (via email) if something is broken,i will be able to look at them tomorrow or max monday
ok; may not be around much myself today, though
eheh don't worry,if there are problems, i want to get them fixed before i start working on 2.6.9,since daniles changed the topic again,i have problems compiling the emu10k1 driver on ppc for 2.6.10.do you think you can look at it after i upload the kernel?
possibly I guess, but I doubt I'm going to have any special knowledge here :)
the point is that the error looks like very gcc/kernel/arch specific
ah, ok, true,speaking of other channels, wake up and do something about latinboy_webcam :)
?
spammer


excellent, DTRT with a set root password too,I seem to be seeing ACPI errors from GNOME on startup with the current daily,"Can't access ACPI events in /var/run/acpid.socket! Make sure the ACPI subsystem is working and the acpid daemon is running.@,"
acpid not running?,oh!,I saw Catalan "de Ubuntu" issues in my Warty install the other day, btw.
Tollef may not have known about that issue.n-c-b?
nautilus-cd-burner
just in Ubuntu
hmm, I saw a few "de Ubuntu" typos in d-i and base-config in my install
mail me with where they are, if you would


has the scary artwork gone in yet?
there is some scary artwork
Does the scary artwork involve people?
not as far as I've seen,ok, so ubuntu rocks even more than I thought :)
Ah, so not the really scary artwork yet


aes: your blog entry was a little confusing,i'd say 90% of packages are in universe, so no extra repositories would be needed,no need for pinning etc,probably, yes,:),add "deb http://ftp.no-name-yet.com/no-name-yet/ warty universe",np,i only discovered it when i moaned about the lack of xemacs :).xemacs being broken?,i'm sure it is
xemacs21 should be there soon
its all in apart from xemacs21-basesupport
we can't build xemacs21-packages (source for xemacs21-basesupport) because xemacs21-basesupport isn't built.  sigh.,it was more the people that were scary - the actual models aren't so scary,bug #1066.cdrecord, or groisofs?
probably growisofs as i was writing to a dvd-rw,lets blame railtrack


well, yes.  But then, I'd have to actually do research to explain the rules definitively...  Not entirely sure which buildd's have hacked around the problem and which have not...
sawfish is written in lithp, so i'm sure you could work something out
why not just binNMU libapache2_mod_python?
need to sync apache2 anyway,subversion needs fixes from a2, so that should be fixed. and i'd prefer to keep python and php in sync whilst we still can
I _had_ DDR RAM, so I didn't buy more than the minimum when I bought the box.  sadly, that'd be registered vs unregistered or some such - my DDR was no good in the box...
eh? we don't want the Defaults <user> timeout=0 bit from base config
that's not what was actually done.,see - fat pipes just make you want _MORE_...,interesting,don'.there's a dfference?
according to base-config,yes,bog standard install
thought so.,are being fixed
elmo had to fix it first ;-),it was the wrong key, previously
I think the scary artwork was planning to arrive once they'd posed the actual models, rather than the stock footage they used in the mockups...
any news from the X buildd front?
-6ubuntu7 is installed on all 3
good.. i was more thinking about the mime stuff :-)
thought about it afterwards - I need to rewrite some perl code into python to fix it, that'll happen sometime soon, but today isn't very likely
can you give it a kick later tonight_?,you can upgrade, but if you do so, either you do echo >> /etc/X11/XF86Config.are you on ubuntu10?,ubuntu9 was broken. please upgrade ubuntu10,i have been working 14 hours yesterday to fix all the -reconfigure /upgrade thingy,you need only xserver-xfree86 and xserver-common from ubuntu10
but I have 9 and a working X config....is -11 due anytime soon?
dpkg-reconfigure won't work and it will smash your config,probably today or tomorrow
yeah - I noticed.  But vi works..,cool
well it's enough you add a line at the end of the file,actually i was thinking to do it in the next 2/3 days.see why?,there will be an ubuntu12 at least,but not that urgent
btw, I had to bump up the hsync/vsync to get my monitor happy
please can you give me a bit more details?
you're assuming that I remember what I changed???
ok hold on a sec....can you do the tests in order as i described them to sounder@ ?
sure.. gotta go find which mail they're in...
yup
noticed upgrading from -u7 to -u9, which was, of course, broken.  But we knew that
there is ubuntu11 out. please use it
yeah, I have 11 where I can upgrade easily,of course, I really don't want to restart X....which of the many mails from you to sounder@ has the test sequence?
the first one?,you will have to restart X. sorry,it is to simulate different scenarios..
interesting...
xserver-xfree86 does not nuck /etc/X11,i do it on a much more often base than you... it doesn't
what did I do???  X won't start now
/var/log/XFree86.0.log,and i have no idea what you did...,ok.. let's do it manually,let's figure first how you manage to kill your X installation,startx,ok. i don't understand what you did..
no, that was my doing... :-(
i am afraid you purged too many packages,second,apt-get install x-window-system,probably it's in universe.are all the other packages installed? it didn't try to install anything?,i am sorry but i have no idea of the mess you are in and i think a clean reinstall of the packages is the best solution
agreed.  (Ikilled /etc/X11...,btw, xserver confirms resolution at install time (after debconf run), obviously...
lamont 
have you been working on ximian-connector, btw?
only evolution-webcal,i did a test on ximimian-connector but it was a FTBFS and i gave up.. ,not knowing it at all, i didn't feel like messing with it,i am already busted enough with X
great!
anyway don't worry.. i won't upload before monday,and complain to daniels for ubuntu13 :P,i was just worried about your mirror :-)
don't worry too much -OO.o just came through yesterday.  It really just affects how often I can upgrade,which means that you really wanna upload no later than sunday
i can't. I am leaving for the weekend in like 1 hour or so.???.what's the status of the buildd?.can they handle X on their own?
empirical evidence suggests that amd64 is the only one I have to kick manually, and 6am UTC isn't even bed time...
i will need to complete the tests before i upload,than it's up to you
amd64 postfix config tweaked to match the other machines.  should upload hands-free now.
Ub3r c00l,ok...
wanna remove the timeout=0 from base-config's sudo hackery while you're in there?.does that mean that you're done with the lock, and ubuntu13 is in-process?
correct,of course
you around?
i am busy on the phone...,no it doesn't
you mean my list?
yes sorry....
np.
with v10,no it's supposed to build on i386 only
so you still have italian citizenship then, eh?
ahha,exactly :-)
19... sigh.
no need to be uploaded. it needs testing,for the nv driver,it's enough for me to push the driver to people. if it works (as it already looks like) we will consider the upload
another 25-40 min or so
fine for me.. i dedicated 4 days on it.. hour more or hour less isn't an issue :-)
procmail is your friend, see mailbox_command in /etc/postfix/main.cf
yeps.. i saw that already.. i have one user in my system that gets mail via procmail.is it safe to use the .forward to relay mails from postfix to procmail, without playing around with postfix config?
yeah.
thanks
about that fglrx stuff...
i didn't package the fglrx stuff and i can't even test it,i am not sure you can see a difference in that
np,Build-Depends in the control file is a statement of what packages must be installed in order to build this pacakge.


What does "Totally Rad Laptop Support" actually involve?
currently, laptop mode, some acpi stuff that doesn't send machines to sleep permanently, etc,ipw2{1,2}00 you mean? we will do,yeah
What happened to the dreadful laptops?,Ultra-rad laptop support should include netapplet
i was thinking that
3D failure?
you have debian support for network manager? where? :-)
Should be in CVS,Found a laptop without ACPI or a dmi table,I have an "interesting" laptop for you
yeah, that looked kinda scary.what is it?
It's a Digital Hinote - circa 1997, at a guess
seems a reasonable move
But we all know that jdub is Australian and therefore wrong.You know you can just hit F11 on boot and choose the boot device you want?
yeah, but that still takes longer than stopping the dhcp server :-)
Dude, why isn't laptop-detect arch:all?
arch specific dependencies
working acpi, i gotta hope :)
Are you still planning on doing an article on acpi at some point?
yes,looks like the netapplet has the same bug about the notification area disappearing that many apps have, sigh
Which one is that?
this one's caused by c&p from broken code in libegg example. rhythmbox and gnome-obex-server get it right.,if i get the energy i'll make a patch
Thanks - that sounds good,http://www.srcf.ucam.org/~mjg59/laptops/
cool. i'll likely bug you a little :)
The acpi-support scripts there ought to do suspend/resume on your machine, too
cool. i'll report back..your packages are ok to use with warty?
Should be, yup
so S3 works nice with that kernel. is there anything i need to do specially to get swusp functioning?
You need to add a resume line to your kernel command line options
ok, done that but no luck. i'll look harder...your kernel doesn't want to play well with vga16fb in the initrd (the 2.6.8.1 did) any ideas?,i also get a slew of "ERROR: removing 'module': Device or resource busy" at the beginning of the boot,modprobing fbcon fixes the console issue, tho i don't know why it differs between yr kernel and the previous one
Hrm. Afraid not - maybe it just insmods it?
swsusp appears to try and come out of suspend as soon as it's gone in, i get eth1: coming out of suspend... and then it stops. i can still view other VTs buutb aside from that the system seems hung
Hrm..How are you calling it?
echo disk >/sys/power/state
Is there a /etc/acpi/hibernate.sh script?
hmm, i have warty's acpi-support for some reason, let me install yours,ah, it complains that you're overwrting files also in acpid. i'll force your acpi-support in
Ah, right - that would explain it
however... even with your stuff it still attempts resume rightgh away with that eth1 message. i'll try rmmod ipw2100 next...
It ought to be rmmodding ipw2100 automatically, which is why I'm confused.You're running the hibernate.sh script?
yeah, using your script linked to the power button. i just rmmod ipw2100 and it worked when i did things manually. i'll try calling hibernate.sh again...,running prepare.sh on its own does not remove ipw2100 here...
Hrm..Can you set -x it and see what it does?
PCINETWORK seems to be empty


we rock.  or sane rocks, or something.  Installed xsane, installed hpoj and It Just Works..what is The Recommended Email Client in ubuntu?  Evolution?
yes,any output that you see that is superflous is a bug, please file
will do.,dhclient.
I'm not sure how to handle dhclient because it actually grabs the terminal so that you can ctrl-c dhcp
modify dhcpclient to not spew a lot of what it does?


speaking of hpoj.......ping?,ping
pong
are you logged into jabber from someplace else?  tried to reach you there first
er, afaik I haven't been logged into Jabber for the last 48h. what's up?,this could be to do with vt switching being pure crap on your chipset maybe,uhm, tinyx is pre-kdrive
well, if the framebuffer is already initialized, then there should be no mode switch.welcome home?
yah. logged in to jabber, got your ping.
"you've got bugs" :-)
i saw all your reassignments; i'm going to do stuff like minigolf right now though
how do I go about getting a dvorak layout with xkb on a powerpc (which uses xkblayout "macintosh")?
has handed me a couple of lovely bugs to hunt down,it's a huge boon to me, let me tell you that now,the appearance (e.g. binary) doesn't change.does setting 'key off' or 'key open' with iwconfig key?
doesn't seem to
weird
want to take a look?
at the ipw stuff, or hotplug mice?
ipw
yeah, I can do that later on; right now I'm fixing the discover mess (sounders@) by syncing the entire PCI device lists we have in the X driver for ATI/NVIDIA/Intel/S3 back to discover,(and have to run my sister out to school in a sec).^^ thoughts?
that was a bug
was/is?,my reactions to xaw are usually less printable :P,ln -s $(which sl) ~/bin/ifconfig,annoying, but effective
nvidia 4 life!!11
boooo,i'm working from the pciids.sf.net, ati devrel, x.org driver, and discover lists of all ati pci cards,fwiw, i'm adding all the r4xx series (x600/x800/et al), but setting them to the vesa driver while we still lack support
why? won't it fall back to vesa anyway?
no,ati will say 'OH SHIT I DON'T KNOW ABOUT THIS CARD TOO BAD SUCKAH',kamion is hardcore
it may need to be moved on fabio's account
to?,'speak'.it is an irc meeting, right?
yes
otherwise i'll need to find a phone card as well as red eye :) (which i needfor xorg anyway),whee, cool,sounds like t1-cyrillic is being realy stupid an povidin /usr/lib/X11 as a directoy,my hours are  decn approximaton of 2200->1400 UTC
noted
yeah, i hear x40s have really nice keyboards,might stop me typoing 'warty' as 'unstable' so much
I know another way to stop you from typing 'unstable',I could break your fingers
that also prevents me from typing 'warty'
details
you canget up to 100m, depends on the device,it's generally accepted as being 10m, tho,so you'll usually either get ~10 or 100; either way, it's enough to use a keyboard,right -4 usb1.1 chanels, and one usb2 channel,'and, for my next trick, proof that black is white!",neat,1056 is blocked by 1056,er, 1056 is blocked by 1057,i've not done font stuff before; how easy is it to transition stuff to fontforge (worth doing for warty?)
I think pfaedit and fontforge are the same program with different names
fglrx isn't unrealistic for restricted, imo
fglrx?
ati binary drivers
packaged?
probably packaged somewhere.the gimp thing?
gimp thing?
getting the bug number now -- basically, sanitising the first startup,aha, #1012
hoary difficult
point taken.if we're talking about warty features -- ati's r4xx code drop?.noting that drivers like prism54 and acx100 lack firmware, is it worth making a last-minute request to the manufacturers for a distribution license and shipping them in the non-free modules?,can we please get some xfs love into the kernel? whether that's just ripping fs/xfs out of 2.6.9-rc1-mm1 (which wfm) or whatever; i'd just like to be able to use my system for an hour without an oops that sends most of my processes into D,(that's separate from the bd-claim issue)
file bug, mail Herbert
will do
it is a bit heavy; but it's not a showstopper
not at all, just a random peanut-gallery comment
do the ati drivers require kernel bits?
yes
currently herbert is working on linux-restricted-modules, then he will send it to fabbione to do nvidia, then he can send it to you for ati,send an email to fabio to let him know you want it next.what about the X portion of the ati driver?,that needs to be packaged for restricted
yes, yes it does.do you want me to do ati?,(my concerns, as stated above, were just that anyone capable of configuring it is more than capable of building it on their own, and exposing it to the world implies that it won't be quite so difficult)
what are the issues with configuratin?
it's a *pain*,especially when tooling around with agpgart settings, it's often easy to get lost in myriad tweaks that you need to do
thom: so is it unsupportable crap?
as much as we need 2d and 3d, fglrx just isn't it.oh, while we're on this, could we please seed bpalogin in if it isn't already?,it's dfsg-free, it's a custom login client for australia's largest cable modem network (and dsl, too), and has been picked up by a few others
supported?
in the warty sense, or the upstream sense?
they are very closely related :-)
heh
is it supportable?
well-supported upstream, would be nice to have in shipseed at least as you kind of need it to get online here
if so, it can go in supported
yes
ok, I'll add it to supported and ship
thanks dude
your mail is looking
where's it looping?
looping?
mail
I forwarded messages to daniels@d.o,/msg'd
ifxed, thanks.if you remove the offending file, and add in a link /etc/X11/xkb/symbols/macintosh/dvorak->/etc/X11/xkb/symbols/dvorak, does that help?
doesn't seem to fix it
arse.copying the file?
I already have a symlink, /etc/X11/xkb/symbols/macintosh/dvorak -> ../dvorak
er yeah, that's what I asked you to try,you can't sleep yet, i was going to ask you if we had any plans to support em64t,ping
pong.ping?.have you done a fresh Warty install recently?
yes, when i got home
that's not recently :-),I think doing a fresh install would be a good step in debugging this.Kamion: is 1.03ubuntu5 the right solution to the problem?
xresprobe 0.4.3 uploaded
so apparently, lcdsize.sh wasn't working for anyone
xprobe.sh now explicitly calls /etc/X11/X
yep, just got the Accepted, thanks.awake?
pong,gah!.i take it you want the page on n-n-ny?
yes, the public wiki,he's gone to sleep
ahr.how about, say, changing keyboard layouts in x? not too hard, no?
X defines gnarly
ping
pong
ok. but yeah, it's largely impossible to validate nv fixes except via lots of tests, since the driver is stupid,ping
I was just talking in the channel a minute ago.is there something I can do for you?,kindly inform jeff that elmo does not deserve any crap right now,tell jeff I take it all back
you should check ndiswrapper out ;)
it's a laptop
i was just told it was a desktop,pick one
sort -tx
thanks,^^,and a dance, even
EVIL
hey man, I like working wireless
same question?
2d yes, 3d no,(r300),yes, 7500 is rv200, r3xx is fully supported with 2d
ping?
pong
there's a "string in list of strings" function
any pointers? :)
info make,$(findstring)
thanks
ping
pong
please check out the Re: Login problem thread on ubuntu-users
actually, I suspect the problem is that it's not in xserver-xfree86's whitelist of resolutions,^^
great, please follow up,hoary is ready for general use; we sent out an announcement to that effect
ho hum,right,i suspect he was talking about the general fear of xfree86 -- it's irrevocably tainted as an organisation, and most people associate X.Org with shiny things,it's kind of inevitable, no matter whether or not we have >300,000 lines of patches,fwiw, as you can see, all my merge bugs except php4 are complete
thanks
you're welcome
?
i was trying to put 2.6.x on fooishbar so I could get a proper tun module to get nstx working (i.e. internet from the hotel), but in the process I killed fooish altogether
your track record of changing kernels while on the road is not very good
it is unspectacular.  i've never killed fd.o, and I've done that about 6 or 7 times.,but I'm pretty much totally unaffected, so *shrug*,please walk him through debugging apt's problem resolution stuff ^^ if you have a minute, I can't remember the necessary crack and I think I'm going to pass out at my keyboard
the guy with the dist-upgrade problem seems to have left,it works flawlessly for me
the problem only occurs if you have xlibs-static-dev installed,in the general case, upgrades are still fine,but I'm uploading a new version now anyway
what's the problem with xlibs-static-dev?
the problem was something like this -- libraries moved from (e.g.) xlibs-static-dev to libxkbfile-dev, so libxkbfile-dev conflicted/replaced xlibs-static-dev << 6.8.1-0.4,and xbase-clients depended on libxkbfile1,so the whole-upgrade scenario, if you had xlibs-static-dev installed, was to install xbase-clients, libxkbfile1, libxkbfile-dev, and xlibs-static-dev, from xorg,only problem is that I was planning for us to go with -1, and we later changed that to -0ubuntu1,now, -0ubuntu1 is << -0.4, so you thus had an impossible upgrade scenario if you previously had xlibs-static-dev installed
aha
so I uploaded shortly after bumping the version to -1ubuntu1 and changing the c/r to << -0ubuntu1, to be doubly sure,stunningly, Stew2 has a recent monitor that doesn't do DDC
OK, CDs hopefully now sorted with all the udebs at the front in Packages file order followed by all the debs in Packages file order,and the Packages files alphabetically sorted by source then package name,wonder how long that'll take to rsync ...
oooh 
could you run "cat /proc/device-tree`cat /proc/device-tree/aliases/mac-io`/radio/name" for me, please?,ah well, can't have everything,fair enough, might be more of an oldworld thing
are the latest dailies package sorted? (or should i wait before downloading, to avoid rsync hell)?
should be,rsync actually seems to deal with the sorting fairly reasonably,uuencode is pretty much the standard way to do that, actually
that's unfortunate. :|.in which case, what's our favourite decoder?
uudecode's in sharutils isn't it?,which packages do you think aptitude -y install ~tdesktop shouldn't have installed? it might be a germinate bug.
fam and its libs (which should indeed be installed with the desktop), but i have other packages providing those
yow - I echo elmo's objections to going to sleep when the lid is closed on AC
eek
best thing to do with them sometimes :-),choosing
what does openssh-server use openssh-client for?.proxy and so on, or...?
/etc/ssh/moduli, ssh-keysign, couple of other common things
was thinking last week - might be cool to have an ssh server with no ssh client
I considered that, but decided against it.
yo yo.did we decide against hdparm in d-i?
I think we decided for it, I just haven't done it yet ...,in fact, how about I file a bug so that I remember,oh yes, I still get that grub stuff
i just looked at one - does it suck?,man ip, i'm using warty.do you think that's crack?
what bizarro way are you building packages that results in Maintainer: Jeff Waugh <jeff.waugh@canonical.com>?
which package?
if you're using -m, that's unnecessary
custom install rocks,intersting observation -> it asks for the at the end,,but only to grab the package file or whatever,,and then reconfigures postfix and that's it.
yeah; I've been ignoring that 'cos the plan is to move that apt-cdrom add to the first stage and totally remove the requirement for the CD in the second stage,yes (at present, only if you boot with the relevant magic option)
so now,we should put all the deb files into a zip file
I was under the strong impression it had been decided in favour of not having non-dotfiles in skel
i also read that one,but i'm not into rehashing stuff we've decided previously,depends what's right,if you can fill mdz+jdub's inbox with why it's 'wrong' rather than 'messy', please do :)
can you remind me what the policy on firmware in the installer was?.i.e. should I be adding these new firmware-supporting modules to our d-i?,base-installer sometimes picks one at random if it hasn't been properly educated
the daily ~= sounder8 ?
==
mdz: did you want to test amd64 exclusively, or...?
I've only tested i386 and powerpc (the latter with some problems)
heh,custom install copies all packages ;-).file bug?
uh, it's not supposed to do that,yes, that's a bug
ok
I did actually get your process mail, I was just temporarily too busy executing the process to answer it :-)
thanks for that mail! :)
what do you use spreadsheets for other than finance and science? :).so, what should I be using now for the isolinux splash on the CD?.what's that, questions asked?
systray icons.around?
?
if the SVGs go up in a reasonable timeframe, i might have a play with the logo against the stripes
are translation changes allowed?
what's your preferred recent daily for mass testing?
lazy tramp
hey, i traded it up on the sleep bonds scheme!
you so need a local mirror
i've been getting by with an apt-proxy,what time? :),post lunchtime would be ideal :),approx 1400 UTC, will confirm later.ping?
pong
n/m, fabbione helped thaytan ,minimum 128MB RAM for the desktop, 512MB recommended,tiny suggestion -> have a look at the ftp.gnome.org layout for inspiration ;)
not sure which bit you mean?
surely warty/preview/,we can archive them off every once in a while,red hat's ftp layout might be useful to check out too
the other problem with warty, hoary, etc. is that they sort abysmally badly,Red Hat's has kind of the right idea but is way too deep
not sure he wants to do that now
phew
perhaps come up with something that sounds sensible, and hit the sounder list with it?.how big's the isolinux splash?
6K.oh, resolution?,639x320,I dropped in a new image recently which looks much better
got one for you from the design firm to compare against
throw it over
sent a png
I'll have to reduce the colourmap on that
'scool,if it looks shit, let me know,oh, send over the one you did for perving :)
mine isn't nearly as nice-looking on the face of it,https://chinstrap.warthogs.hbd.com/~cjwatson/ubuntu-isolinux.ppm
it'd look very nice if it weren't jaggy,i will do something similar on top of the zebra to see how that looks
jaggies are pretty unavoidable with the damned curves,that looks fairly reasonable. only minor issue is that the background ends up the dark blue of the "ubuntu" text
bong!,need to adjust the palette then :|
https://chinstrap.warthogs.hbd.com/~cjwatson/isolinux-photo.jpg,lighting's dreadful, sorry
always meant to be the wednesday,that would be a very good word for it.,"CD's" is an apostropheism,raised and approved
ta, just doing a quick boot test
that isolinux boot logo looks okay.s/the Internet/the Ubuntu update server/ ?.we're not asking about mirrors are we?.and universe?
can't get that so conveniently, I don't mirror it. one sec,10826,four hours ago
about four minutes ago
aha,I made the mistake of believing the front page :),you are the Metatron
that makes me so happy :-),it also means i get to hang out with alanis.,stonkingly.,no argument on that one ;).randomness?
18:11 < Kosai> neighborlee: But you trust a day-old distribution released by a mostly nameless group of developers?  :)
haha :),fight club should be a sacred text of the project ;).heard of any more usb cd install probs, specifically finding the cd device?,cor, you got one too? hmm. :-),we have a joke in gnome,which ends up being 16 hours gnome for a lot of people :)
:-)
lots of nice installer/hardware fixes i see :-) rocking!
polishing phase :)
debian boot is getting ubuntu install reports?
not that I've seen yet,it did occur to me that I needed to clobber bugreporter-udeb or whatever it was to make sure that doesn't happen.what's a good standard address for Ubuntu installation reports that will be good for the lifetime of warty?
-users?
feels like that might get flooded over the lifetime of warty,is the final gdm artwork going to include the machine name on the greeter screen? the debugging artwork did, current doesn't
hrm.do you want it?
hell yeah,I have so many machines around here I get very confused about which is which :)
use case? remote logins?,'unidentified keyboard logins' ;)
I think also it means that, if you have a row of monitors, they're a little less faceless and indistinguishable by default
'cept they'll all be called ubuntu ;),(i actually just commented that bit out in the theme, you can enable it again locally if you want),but yes, i'll make sure we have that
ah, ok - ta
hrm,you don't tend to read knitting group lists though, to be fair :)
my girlfriend reads knitting group lists and still often switches to a console when using Unix systems, so there :)
i'd try to claim my fiancee doesn't switch to consoles, but... well... yeah.
:-),I think your fiancee might not count so much as an ordinary user :-)
hey, how hackish is the scrollkeeper diversion during install?.could we do the same with other things easily enough?
well, in theory it's possible to add others, but I'm not sure it's a very good idea,think of it this way: when we add progress bar support to perl debconf, each of the steps like "Registering documentation" should be accompanied by a progress bar,a surfeit of progress bars gets confusing, so it's best restricted to the stuff that *really* benefits a lot,also, the whole thing is a workaround for the lack of dpkg hooks :-)
aha, i see
all that said, what example was on your mind?
fc-cache on font installs :).which was that?
shouldn't be too painful without the desktop
is there some kind of downloadable metadata file that could be interpreted into a source line?
not to my knowledge
you could just provide a ".debsrc" file or something, which would be consumed by easyinstaller/synaptic
if you have the URL to the repository, you can parse it into the repository
rburton: heh,maybe the "uninstall stupid stuff" thing is an option,perhaps pose that to mdz
if we move pcmcia-cs from Base to Ship, that will be totally sufficient
oh yeah.but it will be automatically installed if the installer uses it?
if [ "$have_pcmcia" -eq 1 ]  && ! grep -q pcmcia-cs /var/lib/apt-install/queue 2>/dev/null; then
i would be tentatively comfortable quimbying that one,see what matt thinks. it sounds reasonable to me.
ok, cool
in fact, it's almost the other way around :),heh, how about a #dhelp? ;)
reminds me way too much of a certain package :)
stop doing floaters!,when you're up, there's a problem with the jigdo files posted to -devel.around?
http://mail.gnome.org/archives/desktop-devel-list/2004-September/msg00381.html
ahr,you should swap the hard drive for a bigger compact flash card... ;).dude?,ping
hmm?
ideas on devolve's sata_nv stuff? only solutions i've heard is loading the driver,might be a bios config issue though,jeff,(all gtk+ level)
ah, ok
is it possible to use normal debs in the installer?
no.what do you need to do?
just thinking about the a11y stuff and depends, and fearing the number of udeb recipes required :)
I'd like the symlink to be available but not used by default, personally
if not used by default, why would it be useful? the option to use it, or the implicit documentation?
there are people who would prefer to use it; those people are fully capable of selecting it manually, it's a convenience
what's the use case? (for completeness)
"I always want to run the latest release of Ubuntu, I know how to upgrade, and I don't want to remember every six months to fiddle with sources.list on my 200 machines, only some of which are running Ubuntu"
200 machine point is tenuous ;)
well, the main point is heterogeneous networks; that's when the brain-space required to remember to fiddle sources.list every six months becomes relevant
my brain has atrophied since i started using cfengine. ;-)
it's difficult for us to conceive that people wouldn't notice when a new version of Ubuntu is released, but we're so involved in the process that we're tremendously bad examples
not sure that "would you believe... FIVE HUNDRED MEGABYTE UPGRADE!" is a brilliant notification though ;-)
we're not talking about the sort of people who use the desktop panel applet here.turning it around, what's the objection to having the non-default facility there?
none,always interested in use cases though
fair enough
yeah, gnome-user-share doesn't do samba configuration stuff,differen thing,there's a sharing tool misplaced in the system menu
ah, ok
g-u-s does zeroconf and webdav stuff
heh, libtiff.would it be possible to separate warty-changes and universe changes?
the w-b stuff is all the same place, so somehow I kinda doubt it....are there baglimits on bob2's?,the changelog said 'goswin'
changelog of?
string a few rubber-bands together and go hunting... It's a great southern sport.
heh, I just evicted ~35 greenfly, 2 dragonflies and 4 moths from my bathroom
only intra-house,remember the cluefactor wrt gnome here...,uh, what's that...,bouncy bouncy...:-)
EU citizens can live and work anywhere in the EU,I can't either,I think
not sudo passwd root?
the root is implied by being root :p,I just did force-overwrite


xserver-xfree86 is asking me a question
the unmitigated gall of it. :-),please sudo ls /var/spool/postfix/{public,private}
both empty,no,this should be trivial to reproduce with a fresh Warty install; others are seeing it as well,no, it isn't
tetex-base appears to have a bug related to dh_fixperms :-(
_another_ bug? grr....ping?.?.what's the latest on tetex?,whatever I was asking about before is probably in your bugzilla list, too, if that wasn't it
probably - need to make yet another pass with out the "not now" sighing noises, I guess.,current tetex-status is: sync pending, then I need to do an upload, and then we should be able to close the lot of them.
-6ubuntu10?,it's faster if you just upgrade it, rather than syncing an entire mirror
yeah, but not by much..,btw, I just sync main and about 5 packages from universe, not the whole archive,context can be found in scrollback at ~0818 PDT,will advise. :-(,all 69 source packages built just fine with the new ruby1.8...
thanks for testing it; please make a notation in bugzilla
should you care, bidwatcher in warty/universe is broken (grave), fix is in debian/incoming..  sync would be nice, but then, it is universe....what (if anything) is still standing in the way of ruby?
if it doesn't break any builds, I think that's it.  please re-propose the sync
will look at #363 again this weekend and figure out what was actually done in Debian, and how hard porting it over will be.
please do,CCed elmo on the bug relating to grub-installer.around?.could you keep an eye on i855-crt and make sure it gets built?
sorry I couldn't push it all the way, eh?
no problem, elmo's nudged it,aptitude install '~tubuntu-desktop',as long as you're awake, if you could check in on linux-source-2.6.8.1_2.6.8.1-1.2, I'd appreciate it,that'd be the -1.1 version,just barely, yes
ah, OK,ok.  about 20 seconds ago, cron.daily started dealing with it,thoughts on pulling the fix for #267837 from debian (postfix, ipv6 relay issues)
if that patch is correct, it's fine with me
powerpc is quick and painful:
that's OK; powerpc and amd64 aren't there yet,they should be within the next day or so, but I wanted to get i386 on the table
probably
b-d: sharutils?
want me to cause 1.3 results to go to you if they fail?
sure
yep,Ok, Camm.
around?
checkning,that looks suspiciously like perl.
alas, I need to write this with only essential: yes
that's why gcc-opt is in C. :-)
was linux-source-2.6.8.1 uploaded for powerpc?
linux-kernel-non-free-modules b-d's sharutils
yes?
cool,linux-source uploaded for ppc
yep, it's installed already
how much is left
everything that wasn't already done for the sarge security review,thanks
burn that bridge when we drive off of it..someone working on 1080?
you? :-)
who are we assigning kernel bugs to these days?
me, for now,no, but we need one
I'd like to be able to burn dvd's on warty...,OK.  First issue is that ide-scsi isn't getting loaded, hence lots of bitchiness as noted.
ide-scsi should not be necessary anymore,seems to be working fine so far,mine is USB, so no ide-scsi madness anyway,try it without ide-scsi and see what happens
re 1072: yeah, ok..the question on dvd burning is, should failure to lock the door (EPERM, to be specific) be fatal to the burn process, or is that just caveat emptor?
I would say emphatically no, it should not be fatal.is read/write permission on the device no longer sufficient to lock the door, or something?
no dice.
so it works as root?.so is this the same issue as #1066, or really a different one?,yeah, I filed a bug about that
OK to upload a fix for 268308?
if it's trivial (only removing code), yeah, why not
OK.  gotta go fetch the kidds
I like the tty_tickets; we want to get rid of the timeout=0
le huh?
http://bugs.debian.org/270619 http://bugs.debian.org/268165
only 6MB of diff between abiword...,what package is iftab in??? (/me has no man page...)
is it running an SMP kernel?
cat /proc/cpuinfo lists one processor
I don't understand why a local mirror is necessary in order to build and test abiword
it's not, but the bits come just as fast - since I'm only mirroring what's currently needed/missing,build finished.any suggestions on things that we want to test beyond just banging around in abiword?.is there any way to get apt to be more verbose about it's decision that a package is not installable?
it tells you the immediate cause; for the nontrivial case it typically says that it's because of something else that is "not going to be installed", in which case you try to install that thing to see why, etc.
re 1066 - media removal part (and indeed the rest of the burning) works as root.  eliminating the error (just print and continue) for mortals just lets them get one step further before they die.,270653
ok, so the bug is not that media removal no longer works as non-root, the rest of the process doesn't either
right.  The inital write fails, IIRC..around?
see #1115.what's the status of buildd support for warty-security?
that's such a 2-days-ago question.. :-),you upload it, it'll build
ok, great
note that when you test warty-security/warty-updates, uploads _will_ happen for them...,just need to drop the '-again' then... :-),worse than that.
BINNMU BAD
gotta have a .
why?
yeah, but they also have i386 and/or amd64 binaries from before the great flushing..,so you want a source upload?  will do
yeah, but then when we go to do a security update for it, they wouldn't get it
momentarily.do apt-preferences apply to deb-src lines, or how do I do that?
apt-get source <package>=<version>
yeah, but I want to say apt-get source=warty,err, apt-get source <pkg>=warty
you want apt-get source <pkg>/warty :-),no
looking at main, I'm not sure we care that much about v10 vs v12.  Universe is much more populated.you want them rebuilt with the v10 depends?
universe? no, not universe
not universe.,iirc, he was really bitching about that tool later, since it horribly misapplied a fewl..
gone yet?
just got home, will be leaving in about 20-30.why were you looking for me, I wonder???
linux-restricted-modules and friends
ah, ok..could it be that growisofs is broken differently?
it's been working perfectly for me today,the one where I fixed the open mode
still around?
here now,if it depends on the nvidia X bits, then it wants to be i386-only
around?
yes,as Herbert said, you need to _revert_ that patch,fabbione has already done it
yeah, but both of us said no to uploading it for warty.  I wanna see it in late october.. :-).so what's the correct and current way to build a new kernel and have grub switch to that?
ls -1vr
subject on the mail?
Subject: Initial volume settings - please test! (Re: Release8
for testing, will my reboot suffice to kill things to a happy state, if I login via text console when i get to gdm???
if and only if you do not have any mixer settings saved
and we're running post-restore?
if you have shut down the machine cleanly, you most likely have saved settings which were restored when you rebooted,I wrote instructions in the mail, yes
rebooting for the other thing..so is aplay supposed to hang?
well, no.did your sound work before you tried the experiment?
yep
which sound driver?.is this a recent install, or upgraded from very old warty?.lsmod | grep i810_audio?,apt-get install sox and try play(1),perhaps you have esd running,if you perform the test as specified, you will not be logged into GNOME, and so no other applications will be messing with the sound device,ok, my instructions sucked then,as long as it's somewhere >= silent and < ears bleeding, I'm happy
no joy with the patch reverted.,found why we die...
modprobe capability, perhaps,the growisofs code makes baby jesus cry
this is cdrom.c,evolutionary growth, I expect.,I see you revisited the buglist...
has gone to sleep and elmo is not awake yet
1215 is warty
yay, you're awake.what's up with the samba build?.eek, so no builds signed for a while?,thanks for checking it out; hope it doesn't keep you up too far past your bedtime.capabilities b0rkage is local to you, right, not on elmo's end?.future builds will be content?
remember when I bitched about gpg missing capabilities?
yep,#1213,I think he probably will, since he'll be awake soon, but sure,you should only need to revert the debian/rules and debian/control changes.could you re-encrypt a copy of my message for elmo?
sure,sent,and now to go hack over growisofs some more... sigh..wanna try a new growisofs on your dvd burner?
yes
69 lines of diff -u output. :-(
does it work?,I'll give it a spin,working perfectly so far,finished successfully as non-root,I say ship it
5.21.4.10.8-1 in debian also fixes the issue.  But they only changed 1 of the opens.....want me to just take their diff?
the fix came from upstream or from Debian?
upstream
yes, let's take upstream's fix then
does our kernel allow CAP_SYS_RAWIO, or is upstream smoking something?.major, or just normal?
I'd say normal, but it should be filed upstream somewhere
which really wants a debian box to verify it on before tossing them the bug report....
please confirm
nope.
so it's waiting in queue/accepted?
actually, I believe it's in the archive, just not referenced by Packages until about 3 min from now
ah
btw, fire training tonight.  I'll make a point to be home by 2200, even if I wind up leaving a little early.
thanks,sorry, I've no choice in the scheduling on this one
around?
yes.are you home?
ah, hell.,way cool,he's hardwired on that machine.
is the latest oo.o upload building now?
for the last 2.5 hours... give it another 3
ping?,elmo uploaded apache for us
I see..as in just recently?
yes,moments ago
see your other window
see yours
accepted != in-Packages...
is sleeping, bah.ping?.export to vCard?
yeah - now I just have to figure out what to install to get mozilla mail back...,daily d-i build is at 0605 BST
thanks, should be plenty of time then
around?
here.ping?,I used to use hpscanpbm back in the day (specific to certain HP scanners), now sane (which has backends for all sorts of scanners)
hrm... clearly adding the scanner to some config file is the first step.. :-)
not if it's a USB scanner,if you're using a USB scanner, everything works like magic.  Also for SCSI, if the permissions are correct (if they aren't, it's a bug),sane probes for available scanners, and if you only have one, it uses that as the default
it is kind of ominous when booting the livecd and it says it's loading /install/vmlinux...
you can right click on the file in nautilus,and add to the playlist
nope, doesn't work.,not over sftp.,libgnomecups.what language are you running with?
it displays some messages in the console if you run it from a gnome-terminal
well, I'm just a stupid user who doesn't "run" it, it just starts automatically, and if I pop in one of my thumbdrives, it works, if I pop the other one in, it doesn't..had a look at my epiphany bug?
seen it, I'll do an upload soon,I've uploaded epiphany some days ago
care to add that build-dep and upload?
ok, I'll do it
any idea about 1443?
no idea for 1443, sorry
what is the environment var I need to set to get glib's g_log function to output stuff?
there is no variable.depending on the code, what's the output of g_log in your program ?
g_log (LM_LOG_DOMAIN, LM_LOG_LEVEL_NET, "\nRECV [%d] :\n", 
g_log_default_handler ()
ok, thanks. :)
np
yes; arc packages are _very_ rare.
the fix is not trivial
sure it is, remove the x-arc entry, since it's wrong.
the entry is right
no, it's not. :),do the math by hand and you see it doesn't make any sense.
the code is wrong
tell me how       <match value="0x0000081a" type="little32" offset="0" mask="0x8080ffff"/>
https://freedesktop.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=1507
no, that's not the problem.,the problem is you are using strtol, not strtoul.
this one is http://freedesktop.org/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=1506,these are 2 differents issues
can you please remove x-arc modules as it (as you can see) breaks cd burning on amd64?
you just want to remove the mime entry for it as a workaround ?
I agree it's not the right fix, but it means we won't see this particular instance of the problem, and it's too late to fix it properly now.
Is there going to be another test release before the weekend?
you mean including Sounder 7 or not?,righto, hopefully tonight but I have no idea how late.what about them?
Getting hold of the dsdt from the C3 would be good, if possible
what's a dsdt?
What you get when you cat /proc/acpi/dsdt :)
I suspect a bit of both :-),Mark wanted to arrange for me to have more scary installer-testing facilities, I think
What does mii-diag output if you're using coax rather than rj45?
haven't the foggiest idea
Yeah, mono-common depends on binfmt-support
there's some 2.6 stuff in its source package,dunno how well it works
see my bug on grub bootsplash?
yes, I already responded,Colin already posted a patch, I'll check it tomorrow,I have to get a basic usplash in post-haste
any other changes from the test package in your homedir?
a new upstream release mad the patch slightly different, but basically the same.can you file a bug on it with a screenshot of the properties in hal-device-manager?
I DID HAVE, until some fascist stole it
how do you know he wasn't a liberal, or a labourer?.it does?
so just you and me then? ;-)
yup ;).please, just a small ssl cert fortune?
NO!
s/graphical//
chunderbird is my least favourite so far, especially now that mutt imap doesn't suck
chunderbird? you mean thunderbird?  and you have applied the imap header caching patch and so on?
i have the imap header caching patch in mutt, yeah
is it possible to put a laptop to sleep without closing the lid?
i hope your toungue is firmly in your cheek when you use php and safe in the same sentence
I'm innocent.  It's all sesse's fault.,I think you forgot "possibly" or "maybe" in your sentence..why can't you?
i was being sarcastic
:P,please don't break it on amd64, since that would mean I would have to investigate. ;)
100 metres, or 100feet?
100m.drag it to trash, like MOS used to do?.what devmapper msg?.fb horkage?
in the installer,so some languages don't work right
weird utf8-langs or normal, sane ones?
utf-8,it is,that's supressed in the latest default
ook
yes, believe so
kills itself, or falss over?
kills itself
heh.,that's friggin stupid,I'm sure we can find an excuse to blame you anyhow.
i'm sure
hottie, it's 7C here.
i think we have quite a few very well connected ones
url?,thanks.  You rock, as usual,it's not the one used for signing the Release.gpg,get yourself a faster computer. :P
i think 
ccache?
does it work with g++ ? man page doesn't say


dhcp is not always your friend..what additional config does postfix need to send mail for your 80%??
needs /etc/mailname set to a domain that exists outside your LAN, and relayhost set to the ISP's SMTP server (since most of them block outbound port 25 these days)
yeah - that'd be those pesky questions things... :-(,pardon my frustration, bntw..are you trying to set the RHS to a CNAME???
it probably is.  will it automatically not rewrite if we add MXes?
switching to an MX RR set instead will let the name stand..what exactly did you tell it to do?, I just sent you mail with: /usr/lib/sendmail -t -i -f bugzilla-daemon@bugzilla.ubuntu.com.did you get the mail I sent you?


will any mono apps be bundled with core? Or are they just going to remain in "universe"?
hoary probably; we froze warty before mono 1.0,you mean a P-M ... there isn't a P4-M,generally speaking, new/novice users will only dist-upgrade between releases.  It tends to be fine then, because the end result of each works
"crack"? :),I've been typing on keyboards for somewhere in the range of twenty years.. if I were to get RSI, I would have had it as a ten-year old..what via crash?
XFree was deeply unhappy on the via graphics chipsetted laptops
ok, via graphics chipset, I don't think I have that
Do you have magic code to enable automatically mounting an encrypted filesystem off an inserted USB device?
ok, I haven't taken the C3 out of its box yet actually, but remind me tomorrow,or if it's more urgent I'll make time this evening,it's getting quite scary
well, clearly you have no need for that grey pos and can send it to me ;).you have an amd64?
not quite yet
rad,right
the xresprobe package, I mean
right,well, note the above if you ever need to use xresprobe for anything installer-wise or whatever :)
I plan not to touch X if I can help it, but thanks :)
BIG SCARY GRAPHICAL INSTALLER WOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO,YOU ONLY MAKE ME STRONGER,I AM THE LURE OF SHINY CLICKY GOODNESS,same as england beating australia in any sporting ocntest within the next week,<subliminal>shinygraphicalinstaller</subliminal>
you mirror universe?
ya-huh
I think that's a bug fix :-),don't need archive access, we have Contents-*.gz files on mirrors
ah, rad
we've got kernels for em64t (-amd64-xeon or some such), and base-installer should pick them automatically,whether it'll actually work is something I can't speak to
rad
oh, by the way, do you still need the account on my laptop and the stuff in your home directory there?
er, nope, thanks,last i checked, xresprobe was doing ok on your machine,'sides, it's not nearly as entertaining when I can't see you die of anxiety :)
heh :).xargs?
hm,you need to invoke xfs_freeze -f then xfs_freeze -u just before grub is called, or maybe during,either way, it's a xfsprogs udeb for one, and yeah
no
...
(a) the Debian maintainer tried that, and it didn't work for some reason; see the bug report,(b) you don't need a udeb since you can chroot into /target
yeah, I fixed that by chrooting into /target and running xfs_freeze; seemed kind of icky tho
nah, I think that's probably better
i'll take your word for it :)
no need for udebs for things you only need after the base system's installed,also, somebody (joeyh?) told me that grub or update-grub or something itself has to run xfs_freeze, so a udeb wouldn't help anyway
eeyow,used to be :),penny-arcade is great,don't forget the data glove!,(although when anyone started talking about arch or any of the other projects, they'd end up screwing up their system totally)
the problem is that we need to generate a snapshot of the archive at the point when the jigdo is generated
how hard would it be to do by hand from today's warty?
the world doesn't have access to little, and I don't have shell access to auckland,this makes it difficult
oh right, I meant from a local machine
oh, probably, but haven't done any of the debian-cd integration yet so I don't quite know
righto, not mjcyh of a muchness,rad, thanks,where are the base modules set? i'm trying to fix #1139, but neither d-i nore base-config have any mention of psmouse,with mdetect, but then if you plug one in later, you don't get it loaded, and no,i can't see why it shouldn't be loaded unconditionally.just to make sure i'm not totally on crack, is the i386 $SUBARCH, i386(?,cheers,haw!.isn't it used for ooo?
yep
so you'd assume it was reasonably complete :) either that, or ooo is disappointing,clamshell is white plastic, iirc
http://www.macstuff.nl/support/iBook.html suggests it's the same type as Jeff's though
that's what g-t does whenever someone tries to paint a character
hooray,pterm does it more often when maximised I think, but I'm not sure if that's just a placebo effect
heh, on 1024x768, all my terms are maximised, usually, so that'd be a bit of a placebo here
ditto
i tile ~4 to a screen at 1600,*wack*.,heh, wake up earlier :P,i got to layout issues but haven't been paying much attention to IRC (at least not for any sustained period of time),o, I am weeping for the loss of discover1-data's format,don't debootstrap warty with LANG=LC_ALL=en_AU.UTF-8.  Bad Things happen.
not to mention that perl spits out a stupid number of locale errors since the locale isn't generated ....does the same happen in a regular en_AU.UTF-8 install, though?
unsure, sorry,not too keen to reinstall my laptop :)
I'll give it a shot next time
cheers dude,appears to be largely mitigated by generating the locale
#3693?
there is a very large intersection of those two sets.can you remember whether or not this UTF-8 stuff worked with 4.3?
it was fine in warty certainly
ok cool, there's a useful datapoint
at least, I believe so ... I guess I should check if you're relying on it, but I'm certain I'd have noticed
yah, just wondering if I was wasting my time diving into 4.3 ;)
I'd go for that one IP; he'll get bored of having to reconnect quickly enough
yah, it was just quicker to type the former
somebody reported it with current I thought?
where was that?
right there, and I'm pretty sure I saw similar a while back
weird.have you got anything already on the l-r-m udeb front I could steal?
not quite, but nearly; mind if I just upload it when I'm done and you can rev it again after that?
sure, sounds fine to me,it was me not realising the nvidia drivers odes interesting things, will fix it later
yeah, I mean in the workaround linked to by gloin, though
oh, right.  yeah.
merry Christmas, enjoy
cheers dude, you too :) hopefully effecective radio silence until the 3rd -- xorg sprint + mataro + fd.o compromise has kinda taken it out of me, and catching up with people is always nice ;)
looks like I'm mostly out of leave, so I'll be around between Christmas and New Year, but expect to be mostly lurking in corners and getting on with isolated projects ...
ah, right.  wanna fix the x.org problem? ;)
without an nvidia it's a bit nerve-wracking ...,seems there might be a stupid load order problem, so I guess /etc/modules would force that


i suspect that's the one psi has,half the time, psi just kicks up a new window with its notification icon, instead of using the area
sounds like a different bug
rad,rad.does that build and work for you? if so, could you please nmu it with a note that i asked?,oh, and if you could patch the Makefile.am as well as the Makefile.in, that'd rock. cheers.,(and priority=high to hit sarge),yo :),i use g-p-m and g-o-s, as well as the other gnome-bluetooth stuff, and it's mad phat,ah, suck :\
walk to the nearest market and pay a few quid for them to unlock it
nice book; i'm thoroughly enjoying it thus far.how's things?
they're going ok thanks. i'm going crazy right now trying to, umm,write a book about debian
heh, nice one
but what i'd rather be doing is playing with ubuntu etc
ahh well,i've been playing with bluetooth a bit lately,haven't tried with the modem,but sending files *to* the phone works ok
feel free to file a bug in gnome bugzlila anyway
i might do -- cheers,i'll be in london from the 14th nov -> 5th dec
excellent! i'm going to plan time down there.
phat :) my phone will be with me,it will be absolutely ill,kickarse@!,mjg59 has a test 2.6.9 kernel with swsusp love, iirc
oh cool. see, i'm moving my main laptop to ubuntu in a fit of recklessness
all cool people have amd64s
bah
seems to work fine on my workstation.
...
I'm sure you'll love the ia32-libs source.  A chummy 138MB.
i'm melltinnnnggggg!
sure, we'll make d-i shinygraphical
can't build t1-cyrillic from stock warty,fmtutil complains that it can't find fmtutil.cnf, yet it's there, and running kpsewhich --format='web2c files' fmtutil.cnf, by hand works
how do you handle tetex-src ?
um, apt-get install tetex-source, or whatever it was,not just lamont,please tell me it's .*_amd64\.deb
around that size, yes.,hints.awk fails to run here.,it doesn't use kmem, it uses some other device.,see you around
... on amd64,buy me one and suddenly not only will I care, it'll become really well-supported,oh, right. well, wanna give me root? i hoope you don't mind the occasional lockup :)
it's just a desktop box, so I wouldn't really mind you locking up the box..and please don't poke too much about in my media and stuff, please?
um yeah, I'm fine with that; I don't really have anything else I'd be doing on it other than compiling ddcprobe in my ~ and testing the result,that would be great, thanks
ok, mail sent.
thanks dude
rsync works fairly well with CD images.you're getting an x40?
yeah
you evil, evil person.
yeah,yeah, 'hoary' seems to be the answer to absolutely everything.  applications bong plus gnome 2.10 plus mad phat startup plus x.org ... oh my.
do you have open outgoing DNS ?
yes,hence the desire for nstx
if you can talk to whatever dns server you want, you can use my nstx, but I haven't gotten it working with a third-party dns server.
*shrug*, had to try it to nstx working.
didn't work?


Actually, I can test this...
you can?  ewww
My network setup partially dates back to the time when I couldn't afford a hub


don't see what's wrong with it, I kinda like the idea of seeing link strength of adjacent networks through hal,makes writing applets so much easier :p
heh,maybe this thread: http://freedesktop.org/pipermail/hal/2004-May/000170.html
yeah, read that one.isn't it like 10 or 11am there though?.are you sure that's not 9pm?!  Since when do you get up in the morning?
ever since I got back :\,i'm a uni bum, i'm cheap
just put Kinnison on your testicles, it's far more ... effective
don't give him ideas.,yeah,whichI never did get workng properl
I just stuck "auth enable;" in /etc/bluetooth/hcid.conf,I'll do it for love and money
 it got past makeafle,you won.how's the build?
whirring ... got tripped by the lack of an .orig.tar.gz <g>
fuck
sudo -s,is building shit now
sigh, thanks
I've never built X before ... I'm going to leave it running
buy more machines, then :P
isn't that, it's that they're just boring and not new :p,"sprayed drink over" I suspect
probably $bling when it comes out here, though,the k700i is a mere $au700 outright (not simlocked), and that's the exact same as the t630
cheap to unlock though
yeah,and they're a bloody nice team, too -- stoddart gave webber his start and then sent him off to jaguar with no worries, and only encouragement,hullo,slept well? :P
have you ordered yours yet?,see, evil, spreading *nods*
tuesday (or maybe wednesday),one of us ... one of us ...
is there any particular reason they're there if they can be probed ?
some monitors need them there, and to be calculated from the resolution; apparently.  whether or not they should be there is a matter of contention over which I've deferred.
heh, the great thing is you can guess what's in (e.g.) GNOME 2.10 and wave it off as a "hoary" thing :p
heh :)
integration of the GTK+ FileSelector bookmarks list and the Nautilus Places list is a probably 2.10 thing ... and we can steal that for the Computer menu; magic \o/ hoary thing <g>
world peace? hoary!.1600?,he's probably asleep,but Ubuntu is most certainly *not* powered by malibu and Coke
"Cooper's Inside" ?
ditch the apostrophe and you're there :),i saw it,it's already fixed, ergo there is no problem,else you lose your /usr/sbin :P
how do I get flash plugins working in warty?
apt-get install swf-player
thanks.  I was searching in synaptic for names with "flash" in, not "swf"
ubuntu team meeting is in progress
sorry -- figured that would be on ubuntu-meeting


how does kdrive rate against a one second startup?
not quite sure, but it's pretty damn quick. most of it is, of course, in the mode switch :\
can we make kdrive use vesa without a mode switch (ie. if use the current mode)?,that is what xdirectfb does and its fast
maybe it already does that
you home yet?.why no fglrx?,I can buy that, especially because we support ati 2d fairly well
(except without 2d support for the current line of cards)
or we could install fortune ...,xscreensaver is sitting permuting "No such file or directory" around the amd's screen at the moment,ubuntu-fortunes? :-).we can have fortune-mod without all the actual data, can't we?
is that the xscreensaver-fortunes when fortune isnt installed?
yes
the load could be dealt with by just having a couple of reverse-squid boxes in front of the main/cdimage servers,q: has the 5minute authenication cache been disabled?  It'll drive people nuts
base-config (2.44ubuntu14) warty; urgency=low,assuming that's what you meant
!praise $DEITY,what would be useful is to have gtksudo still pop up a dialogue if it is called;  stating that you are still authenicated but asking you to confirm the command (and showing it) with an OK
not my field :),um, d-i does,the issue is probably not dud burns there, it's that the archive has newer versions of packages than the CD
both probably contribute to the problem,yes we can.  Just munge Canonical's offical ISO's with an extra flag
disapprove heavily of that kind of thing.also, we'll be publishing the official ISOs; what's to stop people burning them, or indeed from copying pressed CDs?
``I see you're using a self-burnt CD.  Would you like me to checksum it first?'',can bit-twiddle sometime off the end of the CD
I disapprove of doing something I can't even test myself!
can bit-twiddle something off the end of the CD;  is somebody copies it, it'll disappear
I will not do that, sorry
if I wrote the code, would you consider using it?  :-)
probably not, I really dislike that sort of hack,it's one step away from copy protection
s/copy/"verification"/  ;-)
not worth the cost,if we could test in software whether the CD had been burnt, that would be marginally less gross; AFAIK you can't,and I mean something that doesn't depend on properties of the ISO
it maybe possible to do something non-hackish, if they burnt to a CD-RW,snap
atheros
you forget where I used to work?
routing him would be less comfortable :-)
hasn't got us any yet, has it?,it still wouldn't be HIGgy though :(
well, this is the general downside of KDE stuff ;-).re HIG;  would a wrapped Qt app be any worse than OOo ?  (Eg.  A re-skin with some effort towards bringing it closer to HIG) ?


talking of which ... hal doesn't work on warty,starts then exits,trying to figure out why atm
I have the same problem,though, I installed debian's kernel-image-2.6.8 and it seems to work, go figure
what wifi card have you got in that thinkpad of yours?
madwifi,oh, I know this bug,its fixed now upstream,I made a patch for it one time a while back,let me get the patch,http://bugs.breakmygentoo.net/attachment.cgi?id=327&action=view,no, the code was removed upstream a few days after my patch,they decided to roll back the wifi stuff,we could always get the newest dbus and hal (which may not actually be a bad idea),with English becoming such a universal language, we should just switch everyone to EST as well ;) (JK!!!)
ok, from hal-device-manager's stdout I get:
check out hal-device-manager -- does it have the right properties of something mountable?
how do I tell?
block.is_volume, block.storage_device, info.capabilities = *block volume*,that may be the problem, perhaps hal isn't aware of your devices
it's got a name for it
it may get the string from the device itself,though, I'm not sure
there is no block.is_volume key
pitti, mdz: if a device does not have block.is_volume = 1 (or doesn't have block.is_volume at all), gvm ignores it
ok, so how do I fix hal?.but file-rc doesn't ?
that is a bug, we can change that,its a feature :)
not only that, suspending with apm requires root and there was no provision for that
better than starting stupeed yelp
yes, I never use it for help
got my mail, by the way?
mail?
re: webcam
oh, yes.  it turns out that the binary-only driver has been discontinued, the author took the page down
which binary-only driver?
the other webcam driver.oh, qce-source is actually free?
of course
any idea why it isn't in the kernel?  it seems to have been around for a long time
c-qcam appears to load,maybe ti was being loaded but the v4l modules werent,vicious had no time to hack on it for 2.8
no, the thread is on warty list
this will all hopefully be a non-issue with sourcerer :-)
could we get bugzilla components for xscreensaver, gnome-applets and trashapplet ?
yes, I'll add them
ok, thanks
done
libgtop2 (which is a part of the GNOME desktop) has just made a soname change. Warty has only 2 reverse depends on it, there is no problem to update to the new version now (I've the 3 packages ready, just checking) ?
sounds fine.how is eject/remove supposed to work in nautilus?
right click on the device icon, eject/umount 
we'll need to do something about the security issue; I think we'll probably sync the new version.an upload of gaim?.based on 1:0.82.1-1?,I'll reassign the security bug to you, then, and you can close it when you upload.isn't that correct?.is that difficult to implement?,can this be fixed today?  it's very important to me that our daily CD builds work at this point,evolution1.5 and evolution-data-server cannot be installed simultaneously
gni ?,I've uploaded all the piece in the same time this morning.seems to be fine for evolution here, do you still have some problem with an update ?
no, fine now.any idea?
I'm just back from dinner
I can summarize for you,I insert a card in my flash reader, and it is mounted by gvm with pmount on /media/sdc1 and nautilus opens. great!,however, when I double-click on a file, it doesn't open,and an error is logged in ~/.xsession-errors,(nautilus:5489): Eel-WARNING **: Error starting command ''/media/sdc1/Weston/AThenium-with-matt.jpg'': Failed to execute child process "/media/sdc1/Weston/AThenium-with-matt.jpg" (Permission denied),as if it is trying to exec() the file,Open, Open with "The GIMP", Open with "Image Viewer", Open with Other Application
open with gimp/image viewer works ?
yes.what do you think is the best way to fix that issue?
the +x file issue ? Not sure, would like to get nautilus' guys advice, but that's a bit late now
yes.ok, should I file a bug as a reminder?,current gtk seems to have an 'O' in the version number rather than a '0'
oups, yes. I don't think it's a problem
the new gnome-vfs2 seems to work perfectly,my primary remaining concern with the automounting stuff is how to handle unmounting,the unmount option under the Computer icon is too obscure; I don't think users will find it
any idea of how to do it in a better way ?
it would be very nice if it could trigger an unmount when the user closes all active nautilus windows on the volume.is that something which would be complex to implement?
not sure, nautilus keeps some monitor on files.why not using automount/autofs if we want to do an auto umount ?
we can look at it, but I think it would be too complex for Warty
closing the windows, ok ... but what about the browser mode ?,I select an another dir in the tree
what remains for the desktop UI changes?.ok, so Mark's requirements are met for Warty?.nothing else is unresolved there?
oh, not sure about the trash applet,I'll add it again to the default config
Mark said the issues were cosmetic; is that true?  I can live with it as long as it doesn't crash
cosmetic and translations missing yes,the current menu layout is ok for everybody ? Should be (I've changed it according to Jeff's mail 2 days ago), but I just want to check,perhaps some branding missing (in evolution ?) .. Jeff was supposed to check
is there a bug filed?
no,booting in single user gives a root login without any password according to SurcouF .is that expected ?
yes
so if somebody turn my box on, boot on single user he gets a root session ... and that's not a problem ?
no, it isn't,if he has access to the console, you lose,if you want fancy completion, we provide zsh :-)
no, I just like to apt-get ins<TAB> nauti<TAB> 
ping?.is there currently a way to suppress a menu entry without deleting the .desktop file?
there is a ShowSomething option for the desktop files yes.here ?
in and out
ok, just a quick question. I need to update gnumeric to register it in the mime system ... wondering if I should sync with the debian package,we have -1: http://packages.debian.org/changelogs/pool/main/g/gnumeric/gnumeric_1.2.13-4/changelog.JHM mainly fixed some bugs and backported translation from CVS for sarge ... usually he does a good job, what do you think ?
I do not see any fixes in there that seem release-critical, so I do not think we should sync
BTW I've updated gdm for the path but not to the new version, we have an 2.6.0.3-0ubuntu15 with changes in the .diff.gz ... not easy to update to 2.6.0.4,not tested it
evolution-webcal and evolution-exchange stay the same?.do we need to update the seeds to account for the new evolution?
yes, drop the 1.5 evolution1.5 -> evolution
are you working on openoffice?
no, I was waiting to get Nathaniel's patch attached to the bug report (and I've just finished packaging GNOME 2.8 tarballs before dinner)
have you heard from him today?.evolution 2.0 will require NEW processing, no?,evolution binaries are in the archive now.is ximian-connector still building?.or did it produce different binaries as well?
did we solve the ~/Documents creation issue ?
not to my knowledge
I've made dummy evolution1.5/evolution1.5-dev for transition, should we add them to the seed ? Currently they are out of warty ...
yes, I'll do it,new evolution looks good,welcome back :-),I encountered a bug while you were away
1238 ?
the big red one :-)
that's a dup of 1110.if you could provide the details asked in 1110. Which version of gconf2 is installed ?,apparently my gconf2 patch had a problem, I've fixed it in the 2.8 upload
this happens on a fresh Warty install
fresh install already has gconf 2.8 ?
everything current from the warty archive,I sent gconf output to the bug,it was wrong only for https before, but now that I have reinstalled, both http and https are epiphany,/etc/gconf/schemas/desktop_gnome_url_handlers.schemas:      <default>epiphany %s</default>,that is the default for /schemas/desktop/gnome/url-handlers/https/command
yes, just seen that, that's a bug,but the http one should be ok
yes, but it isn't :-/
what's in the schema for the http one ?
however, Desktop Preferences->Preferred Applications says my Default Web Browser is epiphany,there is also this: ./gconf.xml.defaults/schemas/desktop/gnome/url-handlers/https/%gconf.xml:                        <stringvalue>epiphany %s</stringvalue>,ok, on a fresh user http is correct
gnome-vfs 2.8.0-0ubuntu2 with firefox as default for https too uploaded
thanks,just filed #1296,that does not happen automatically
ok, that's the problem.we don't have eagle-usb/adsl in warty, any reason ?
not that I know of; did you propose it for a seed before?
no, but was talking about this with vincent  ... in fact that's need for internet connexion for a part of adsl users in France
have you used the package? is it sane?
I've not used it, but it was maintained by Lo-lan-do and now by migus, and it's in a pretty good state yes,I can check with Lo-lan-do tomorrow to be sure,I've just checked with Lo-lan-2, according to him the package is in a good state and works pretty fine.ok, so, should I mail you+jdub about eagle-adsl ?
mail ubuntu-devel, I'd say
ok, thanks.jdub : permission to fix 1319 (epiphany downloads broken by jdub's changes) and 1266 (umount drives in network://) ?
is it straightforward?,by the way, please subscribe to ubuntu-devel
I get mails from ubuntu-devel ... I guess I'm on the list ?
at what address do you receive these mails?
good question, I don't see the source adress in the header ... my debian and canonical email points at the same place, so one of the 2
I do not see anything with 'seb' in it in the subscription list, nor do I see you when searching for canonical or debian, but I will believe you if you say that you are getting the mails
arg, stupid error on my part. I've mail in my ubuntu-devel box, but these are -user cc: -devel ...,and they got classed in the devel because the rule is before the user one ... sorry I'm subscribing right now,ok, now I'm on the list. Sorry for the mistake, I though all the @canonical were subscribed.here ?
here
just noticed after comments from some french users, but the default browser is english only ? 
it is unless you install mozilla-firefox-locale-fr, apparently
yes, but apparently the browser is much more used
the firefox locales are about 5M installed, total,I think we can probably include them in desktop.could you start the discussion?
on -devel ?
ubuntu-devel, yes
BTW, do we have a trace somewhere of why we choose firefox instead of epiphany which is the GNOME browser ?,epiphany guys was wondering the reasons, and to be honest I don't really why :)
that decision was before sounder existed, right?
stupid question, but why if you add an user it should be in some standards group (at least plugdev) ?
it should be, we just haven't implemented it yet
gtk+ 2.4.10 is out (bug fixes release), that's ok for warty ?
unclear,I would not want to upload it just because it is new
oh, right. so you're prepared to make your ibook work, but not make tmp dirs work right ;P,fascist
do you know what that file is?,the one in warty has pmcs-*
yeah, you need the apm emulation loaded
are we taking latest firefox, or patching existing version?
the latter,given the changes between unstable and warty, it's the only thing to do
mdz: surely we should be pulling latest firefox in with gnome
http://packages.debian.org/changelogs/pool/main/m/mozilla-firefox/mozilla-firefox_0.9.3-2.2/changelog
don't want to sync with firefox?
yeah
http://mirror.bom.gov.au/radar/IDR033.gif
dell? EWWWW!
that's what i thought, but the x300 is great.
i'd not put money on a dell laptop making it past the first month these days
around?
yes ;-)
hrm, yes to which? :)
to being awake ;-)
ah :)
what's up?
i don't remember
you did the silly thing, didn't you? :-),my condolences
well, ddaa is talking about making them one and the same object :)
yes, and that's a viable goal for warty :P
did you happen to change any of the other defaults in xscreensaver?
such as?
all of the image manipulation and diagnostics settings should be off,(though we could supply a bunch of piccies for choose random image, but we don't have them yet),we could enable power management there,the fade to/from black could both be on, set at 2 seconds.thoughts?
fish.
plus i don't think we really answered the screen locking question
which screen locking question
whether we enable it by default or not.do you want me to deal with those?
you can deal with the screen locking
well, that's unanswered, i'm more interested in the other settings
ok, what are reasonable defaults for power management?
desktop images on == information leak,(a selection of random images would be nice)
you happy with an upload to fix 1158?
interesting,MLP!,bet they're pleased to see cachefs ;)
thanks for fixing samba :(
;),stinky hash!
it's one of the best features of epiphany, you fascist
what, breaking your saved session if you don't have a network connection when you try to recover it?,that's a bad bug :)
well, that's a bug in gnome,oh, right
you seem to be suggesting that my awareness of bugs in epiphany is somehow related to the decision to go with firefox. ;-) i do not endorse this point of view! </quimby>
you're just a mozilla.org lackey
no, that is wrong, please don't continue saying that,n/m, got it to work.hrm, did you get an ugly X cursor up the top left when you used i855crt?,woo!,yaaaay!,you were dissin' me for the release time -> you had it best off
i was dissing you because of apache an hour before :-).and you realise i've been up since somewhere around 08:30 yesterday?
how many hours ahead am i? :)
patch attached to 1249, ok to apply and upload?
commented, approved
also, the fix suggested in 1466 is correct, ok to apply and upload?
commented, approved,we really need that pending status ;),that so has to be a tarball inside a tarball error ;),they said it was smaller!
they left the CVS directories in the 1.0PR tarball,you'd be faster if you'd bought an X40 ;-)
not funny anymore
played with the industrial theme for firefox yet?
yeah, been using it for the last week,certainly nicer than the normal one ;),might be worth pulling in, swapping some of the icons, and putting it up post-warty,i like this concept ;)
no mention of it, i turned off the glsnake labels


that's cause he is forced to run suse by his evil company,just like me,recruited by novell? hah, no
can i forward to rburton ?
hrm, maybe i should send you this big doc
sounder:oink,the harder the nipple...
dude, i'd value you a call from you more than a mail from nat any day of the week
you're biased,(we should've replaced battstat with battfink)
you want a gtk2 screen locking patch so that jamie can get pissed off at ubuntu too?
that's actually sitting in our bug tracker too
heh, rock


ok, thanks.
it's not that I can't afford it, it's that it's annoying to change them.
bah, I'm bitter about the whole "It took us 5 years to get this out because we wanted to engineer it to be cheap and accessible" and every mfg. seems to throw it on their $100 gadgets.


I thought the same, but in the few weeks I've been running with it on, I've noticed my wrists feel much happier
I don't go to the gym.. I climb a bit, though.  No wrist pain.,then limit the budget you have, like in US presidential campaigns.
why would you ever want firmware outside of the root fs?


just added one now
cool.  thanks.  ever so much easier to script the rsync this way...  ;-).question from right field.  for apt-secure, is there a particular tool typically used to generate the detached signatures, or is gpg typically scripted directly?
have to say I'm not sure, mdz would be your man
wimp!  ;-)
what's the problem?
hangs after the "please wait" ,first reboot after an install-from-scratch using the warty preview iso for amd64,I've tried various things, including turning off the menu hiding, installing the grub from sid, etc.  same machine with a different disk boots amd64 sid happily
depends where you're rsyncing from ...,if you rsync all of releases.ubuntu.com::releases, it should be fine, since the changed filenames are only symlinks to constant filenames in .pool
I've got an rsync going from the "old" place after seeing the filenames there hadn't changed and the md5sums match the ones in the new place...  but I suspect I'll rename everything and repoing the rsync at some point,interesting.  I'll poke at that once this rsync finishes
unfortunately we didn't get the cdimage layout totally settled before the preview release, which would've been the ideal point to do it


Hello,I just send my review,Thanks ;-),Well, I read it now and there's so much mispelling :-(,And there seems to be a bug in Abi with color
thanks for the report but in abiwork you don't make it easy for me to reply :(.are you subscribed to the mailing list?
it's was a bit long for a mail,yes. Do you want that I send the text as a mail
i would like you to provide me with the info about X as i wrote in a previous email,let me give you a link',you will need to authenticate to read the archive,Subject: Notes on how to debug X autodetection.
I'm not under Warty here (it's my good old Debian). I will try it today ...
thanks. that would give me more info on why it didn't detect the panel correctly
so I just add deb http://ftp.no-name-yet.com/no-name-yet warty main in my source.list and do your test ?,It's done


Hello,I just send my review,Thanks ;-),Well, I read it now and there's so much mispelling :-(,And there seems to be a bug in Abi with color.?,I will do it !,Abiword was for colors and images..
I take it you didn't use the "erase entire disk" option?,the post-reboot progress bar thing's known but will take some time to fix because debconf doesn't yet have progress bar support.
I know that somes things are difficult or already know. But it's my full first impression
were you DHCPing?,that was a bug in base-config, it wasn't telling aptitude to ignore Recommends:,it's fixed in the daily builds,probably :-)
so I will wait and hang around there before testing :-)
might be quite late today though,yes,well, up to UpstreamVersionFreeze anyway,might want to talk to the fledgling documentation team
where can I find hem ?
there's stuff on the wiki I believe,you haven't logged in then
I've resend your review in plain text to the list
ARGH !
what ?.X has crashed ? which error ?,BTW I've replied to your mail
thx you for response,the X crash was exactly the same as in my review : black/white lines followed by coloured blocks,I've made a new user with my up-to-date Warty : there's no icon in the panel
rm -rf /etc/gconf/gconf.xml.defaults/apps/panel/ and "sh /var/lib/dpkg/info/gnome-panel-data.postinst configure" and try again
by the way, the new "Computer" menu is great.WHAT ? No Xnest in Warty ???,it works : Firefox, Evolution, Gnome-help,I never had problem with Xnest
you don't like your warty ? :)
I don't want to customize my warty to keep it as default as possible
ok,so I guess you can get back to your Debian :).probably epiphany as default in control-center ?
you've got it,at least to an installed browser
sure, but the question is which one :),ploum: ,from one of my IRC logs,dunno with what you are trying to read it,contribution are welcome,you can package it
of course.
because it failed to build on the autobuilder, you can grab the source package and try to make it working
ok thanks..
need a backtrace,a new package grabbed on an another repository breaking your setup ? :p
:p !!!
no bug with this number according to bugzilla,<ploum> #8926,you gave me the wrong number on purpose ? :p
no a package brokes my key "1"
that's a bugzilla.ubuntu.com bug,that does that with firefox too,and I get the bug only on this website
I've this bug on ubuntuforums too
I'm reassigning to them, let's see what he says :)
I just in the mood : "report every little bug you see if you want them fixed someday"
hypatia: you are Mary, I take it :)
Yes.
welcome!
thanks
how is New York?
technically I do not belong here yet as I have no computer to install warty on...,We're still in Boston (Cambridge).,But it's nice.,New York on Monday.
ah, cool.how's Andrew faring?


also, another thing : the exchange plugin is uggly when you don't have an exchange server :-( (a whole blank page)
dupe bug! ;)
soryr but I don't understand. What means "dupe" ?
duplicate, I already reported it..you get a blank-looking thing that makes it look like evolution might be crashing right?
FUCK,they stolen my car!,FUCK
!!!,your hackergotchi can be a bum :)
are you going to fix it???.dude?
fix on its way
thanks,mine is normal installation. i don't customize my desktop.#1094, cdrom install or netinstall?
cdrom, custom (probably the same for desktop)
with the tests i did i always got the /, but i will check again later today,bug fixed.but what's the problem with daily?.is there any problem with it?
no, i haven't tried it, i want to know! :)
test it and let us know :-))),it is already configurable
that's not what i asked :)
1187.who is responsable for setting that stuff on ppc?,for sure X is not
sysctl.but perhaps powerpc-utils could do it?
i dunno really.. i don't have a ppc and i don't know all the specific ppc packages around
i think kamion would have good ideas for this one
can we open hoary season while warty is in deep freeze?,we might want to take advantage of this month time,otherwise hoary will have a 5 months release schedule :-)
see the process reqs
?
preview freeze upload requirements on sounder list,there have been some build issues,sources go in, binaries don't turn up, etc.
ok.,he can still see via thread..,well that goes behiond my problem ;)
i have a 220R, an ultra 5 and an SS10 -> i'll help! ;)
follow up on ubuntu-user :-),you R220 sucks compared to my U60 or my t1 ;)
we'll have to sort out external buildds with lamont :),:-),but it's bigger and louder and manlier :-)
no. Mark said that if there are enough porter for arch foo he will take care of placing buildd's at the datacenter,true :-),no external buildd
we'll have to at some stage
i don't think so,we can buy one E10K and that's it,eheh well you will have to convice: Mark, elmo, lamont & Co..?
see busid discussion above
not now..
same thing these days :)
i am purist :P,ulimit is an internal sh. there is no man page.,well there is an ulimit(3),otherwise man <shell>


no question,The config is the same as before,X works (I will try to see if it works the first time after a reboot),GDM is still in Deutch and 1152x864, like new users if I add them
say "deutsch" :-)
thx :-).did you use a qwertz keyboard ?


home applet?
it's a shortcut to your home dir but on the panel. I think it's eliminated a good deal of my minimizing.
I think the current daily is no good,you'll need to uncomment the sources.list entries for ftp.n-n-y.com,Hoary Hedgehog :-),thanks, good night,yes, probabyl after the release, though maybe slightly before


if seb128 doesn't want to do it, it's not standard :)
yes, we already said that, we need some good games in the desktop !,you get it :p
so why isn't gTetrinet in desktop? :).which package are the new .desktop files in?
what about the desktop files ?
the new Computer menu -- psi was asking about translating it into Swedish
the computer menu is not vfolder, the strings are in gnome-panel
ah, right


no question,The config is the same as before,X works (I will try to see if it works the first time after a reboot),GDM is still in Deutch and 1152x864, like new users if I add them,hi wally,;-),you must submit it upstream
it's in supported, but not installed with the desktop by default,ephiphany depends on mozilla
but epiphany is not installed
when it's a bit more polished, it'll probably go in supported (it's not the kind of thing that everyone would use0,it's the warty warthog release :-),'warty' sort of means 'patchy' or 'a bit buggy',and we thought the first release might be a bit warty ;)
in french warty means "verol" and that's not pretty,yes, indeed
ubuntu is defined on the wiki (in the FAQ)
sorry,I've reported this bug
pretty sure gstreamer.net links to their docs,and #gstreamer is on this network, from memory
I'm sorry ! I wrote in the wrong tab
there's a problem with the mplayer packages atm
i'm not sure that's the right thing to do
we should?.new upstream versions? this late in the game?
those aren't very indistinguishable
are you home now?.didn't we talk about adding it to desktop?
we talked about it but you said "hmm, neh" or similar. ;-)
as I recall, you said "hey, xnest in desktop?" and I looked at you funny, and then you explained about gdmflexiserver
it's kind of a techo use case anyway,but it is kinda cool, and only one more icon in system tools
it is a little big (3.5M installed, 1.5M deb)
yeah, was just checking that too ;) let,you're happy with syncing firefox with the desktop/
I can't say I'm fully confident,the reason we can get away with it with GNOME is that they have sane release management.new packages, or new versions?,new versions won't really work, considering hoary is going to get new stuff from sid.does vino not have a menu entry?
'remote desktop' under desktop preferences,you have to run vino-session to make the server work though (that should be added in gnome-session)
that's the annoying sudo banner.assuming we get it working, are we going to have to modify a ton of .desktop files to actually use gksudo?
that's what i'm trying to figure out now ;),gksudo is a symlink to gksu,so, um, i think that means we're stuck modifying desktop files
yeah, noticed that
ok, i'm going to change the gdm one now,anal retentive safety, and the fact that basically nothing uses RH-style autorun anyway,hmm, seems the broadcom in the x300 works with the tg3 driver.are we going to have kernel pacakges to test from herbert soon?
I was supposed to have them today, but he had trouble connecting to the ssh service I set up for him
ahr.gtkfb frontent?.so are we pulling pmount/gvm stuff into the main archive for testing?
pmount is already there, and yes, gvm should go in as soon as possible so it can be cleaned up
hrm
or quite late,*nods enthusiastically*
what to do about portmap?,oh, never mind
https://bugzilla.no-name-yet.com/show_bug.cgi?id=505,they're loaded by the powernowd init script,ask thom,dude, we have never even tried to import all the components
sounds like RH are going with LVM by default in FC3,would that make sense in the general case? (desktops, laptops, etc)
for the root filesystem?."looking at" or "going with"?.did you try that mouse test?
so, we pretty much established that the mdadm daemon only did notification, right?
yes,bugs incoming
evo stuff?,okay, so;,fixing gnome-system-tools itself is going to be error-prone and time-consuming.,so i'm going to fix their launchers to gksudo first,
:-(
and fix other places where they're launched.sound okay?
doesn't make my skin crawl, if that's what you're asking :-)
also, without samba, the windows networking section in g-s-t doesn't work
ick, why not?
around?
yep
might be wiser for pitti to look into the gnome-cups-manager issue
I CCed him on the bug.what did you decide on?
x300
I'm sorry :-(,I mean, I hope you like it :-)
i've cleaned up the gstreamer plugins a bit,so jackd is no longer in desktop
do you have /dev/snd/*?.udevd running?,c == capture
i wasn't going to fix those because new ones will appear shortly anyway
it's been breaking the daily CDs for two days; we need for those to be working,alsa needs some udev love to consistently name its devices.where did sr_mod and sbp2 come from?,file associations...,I do not think that word means what you think it means :-)
who did you see about the ifconfig/ip retraining?,i tried hypnosis and electric shock therapy, but so far, no go.maybe it's dietary?
printf '#!/bin/sh\n\necho ip, you idiot\n' > ~/bin/ifconfig && chmod 755 ~/bin/ifconfig,it also helps to remind yourself that ip is _way_ fewer characters :-),drink the kool-aid
no dietician for you!.so the mousedev thing - what can we do to fix that?,(always loading mousedev)
have it added to /etc/modules at install
how've you put stuff on www.nny.com/~mdz?
rookery:~/public_html
so, atm, gstreamer0.8-mad and friends end up in supported via extra,they're not blacklisted out into universe
extra stuff doesn't automagically go into supported; it ends up in universe
i reported the acpi thing earlier, assigned to seb with thom cced
where is it? I'm not finding it
i don't have a web browser atm, give me a minute... ;),fixed the current version prob,already fixed it
does it incorporate #501?
will do
Kamion implemented an undocumented option to just install base,preserving the rest of the install experience
yeah, booting with custom, that's what i suggested
no, custom drops the debconf priority to low
which reminds me... wvdial...
current daily seems to have the desktop icon breakage; is that fixed yet?,file bugs.do you have the latest lsb-base?,sh -x /etc/init.d/cupsys stop
that looks fine,all that error checking is going to drown the performance of my initscripts!,i would like ubuntu-artwork to depend on gnome-accessibility-themes for a short period of time,though that conflicts with some of #501.thoughts?,or, i can split the grub bit out into another package
why would it need to depend on gnome-accessibility-themes?,no need to split the grub bit; I explained in the bug exactly how I think it should be solved
i want to inherit from an a11y theme,(the grub dir and image is going to look funny on other arches, nothing important, plus it would give us the base action while letting ubuntu-artwork depend on wacky gnome stuff)
I don't think the comment about GNOME and Base applies anymore,since we don't use the grub splash image,well, we won't when you finish with ubuntu-artwork and let npmccallum finish that bit,we decided that since the grub menu isn't even displayed by default anymore, it doesn't need a pretty background
so we don't need the splash stuff in the package at all, and i'm free to depend on whatever i like?
you don't need to install the splash image at all, no,it still needs to call update-grub, as described in 501, so that the splash gets removed from menu.lst
that didn't actually kill the splash image line in grub/menu.lst
why are you growling at me?,running update-grub when the splash image is no longer present in the filesystem should remove it from menu.lst,all the ones we were able to collect in Oxford are in the xfree86 debconf list.can anything be done about famd running as root?.can you update the email address for bugzilla-daemon on warty-bugs so its posts don't wait for moderation anymore?
aren't you the admin?
yeah, but it still seems to send a confirmation message
how's that going?
did you make that bugzilla-daemon change?  there was still a whole load of stuff in the queue, but maybe it was all old
yeah, changed a while back,gar, vicious bastard :).you know that annoying 'do you want to restart pcmcia on upgrade' dialogue?,i've been getting that on my ibook and test box, neither of which have pcmcia
yes, it happens anywhere that pcmcia-cs is installed,see #1002.how many more packages remain in #943?
just checking gnome-cups-manager
is there going to be a 2.[78]  gdm?
no,not for gnome 2.8 anyway ;)
so gnome 2.8 will include gdm 2.6?.what hours are those?
Australia/Sydney
no, I mean what hours are you usually available (UTC)
whenever, i'm used to the damage
seriously; I have a list and I'll try to at least rotate the damage if not accomodate everyone
i'm generally awake between UTC 2100 and UTC 1400
thanks,yeah, that tells me the time, but not when people are awake
how much do we trust the bluetooth daemons and stuff?
depends on what they want :-)
ahr, that is true.perhaps i should mail edd about it?
yeah, anybody who might know
yowza.did nathaniel do all of the init scripts in supported, too?
I hope not
which avoids bugs, but they're going to be different...
yeah, and then regression-test every action (stop/start/reload/restart) :-/
*fear*
potentially because vim-tiny does not exist?.kernel treating you well?
haven't sprained anything yet,somehow, gpdf has not been on the supported list, due to the xpdf/gpdf thing; can i add it on? (it should be there, considering it's shipped in gnome)
hmm, doesn't it basically duplicate a bunch of code from xpdf?
ok, i'll leave it to hoary.it is? i always wondered about that - does that make .bash_profile do the right thing?
yes,gdict not good enough? :-P
we have command line equivalents :-),and i have never managed to get used to gdict
just ruffling your GNOME feathers,I would be happy to have dict in desktop, except that it would apparently pull in other packages
netbase, recode?
recode, apparently,amd64, I believe, is the architecture that kamion can't test locally
copy shipseed?
grub summary?
boot's much faster ;)
BUILTIN_NO_ECHO (for grub),try building with that
build var?
bitfield,what that step is doing is unpacking the bits which decide whether or not there is any preconfiguration to be done,we don't
mouse fix was good,1094, not sure who/what it should be on
assign it to fabbione,yep
what's his bugzilla login?
'fabbione' in the box will do the job.care to propose on the list that we revert it?,I'll back you up :-),or, just upload base-config, fixing the slash typo and this at the same time,correct,on an upgrade, it'll be the version being upgraded from
just delete the who categories line (to make menu entries disappear),having played with bluetooth stuff now, i'm pretty concerned with having bluez-utils installed by default on the desktop,it goes against our 'no listening' policy.can i shift the bluetooth packages out into supported?
what did you discover in playing with it?
listening by default, pin=1234, etc. we should just not have those daemons running for warty.,they are not user-controllable, etc.
->supported is OK with me,my only real concern was for people with bluetooth keyboards and such,just did an install in 22 minutes
so,i'd like to lock down uploads now,and require confirmation from you and i for every change,perhaps barring artwork.are you happy with that now?.can we set some kind of sensible option for not cleaning tmp on every reboot?
hmm?  cleaning /tmp on every boot is sensible, in my opinion
mostly, yeah, but not when you're writing emails in mutt and your machine turns off ;)
seems like a mutt bug,I believe mutt has a muttrc setting for it
did you go to bed?
he said ssh-askpass-gnome, not ssh-add
^ this known?
not to me,I think thom's gone to bed, in which case please just fix it,I'm especially interested in Apple systems, since they seem to have different mixer behaviour
hrm, will upgrade willow now
no need to upgrade
#1208 please
sprinkled.if it doesn't break willow, I'm going to ship it. any luck there?
been fixing bugs,give me a minute :)
oh, I thought you were reading osnews.com :-)
back,now i can't get anything but static out of it... grr. rebooting.,okay, verified - works fine, and an appropriate volume
thanks, uploaded
hrmphmrrmrrmph, yeah, okay. :|
do you have a better suggestion?
nup, that's a good way out..appropriate to keep it on track for final, though?
sure.what looks like the right solution for final?
doesn't look like any of the major severity bugs warrant raising to me - agree?.wrt menu item, aren't we just pushing it out into supported?,oh.perhaps we can just ensure that we have a sensibly obvious link to bugzilla from home.ubuntu.com?
it'd be nice to have a menu item, and then when we switch to using bug-buddy, users already know where to go,is it inconvenient to do or something?  I thought it was trivial
well, if we don't install bug-buddy, we don't have a menu item,so i'd have to install a desktop file somewhere
bug-buddy-lite :-).did you forget to upload the fix for #1209?
hrm, i thought that was accepted
it's not in the pool,source is there, but no binaries.you uploaded a long time ago, no?
yeah
should be around,never arrived.you seem to be collecting branding/defaults bugs; are you going to be able to get all of those done today, or do you need help?
i passed off the openoffice ones,concentrating on ubuntu-artwork and a couple of desktop changes
oh, the bug is still assigned to you
seb's already done evo, haven't seen nat for the openoffice ones (though seb was going to fix them anyway),hrm,well if pitti/nat can do those, that'd be very helpful
does nautilus try to call growisofs?.did you approve xresprobe 0.4.6?,seb128: /etc/skel works for me,:-)
do we have anyone doing a firefox PR package update?
a who-what now?
we need a firefox package update, and someone with the time to do it :-)
what sort of update?
0.9 -> PR1
right, after preview
mark has asked for it before the preview
I just talked to him and he didn't mention it,that's insane,what's your take on the ooo splash question?-
perhaps pop our logo in as well as debian's?
that's what I was thinking, npmccallum says it might be a tight fit.what's this mysterious #1226 stuff?
uploading now,nothing major,tiny bit controversial
oh, I know what it is :-),warty-i386.iso
npmccallum: y'know, i'm kinda thinking the OOo branding (just an icon in the splash!) is not really important enough to fix at this stage,npmccallum: if we wait for final, we can Do It Right
I was wondering about it myself.er, I thought we agreed to move it forward to 1500?
sorry, yes
npmccallum: let's downgrade that to normal and revisit it after preview
btw, is that bugzilla WartyWarthog -> Ubuntu change happening?
that's a question for justdave.the debug artwork on the gdm login screen is on your list, right?
already uploaded to chinstrap
what's the status of #1080?
can you reassign that to someone else?,if you want to put the .desktop file in ubuntu-artwork, it's just a debian/ dir patch on top.also, is bug-buddy -> supported?
my problem with the bug-buddy->supported / ubuntu-artwork approach is that upgrades will never get bug-buddy
true,but with bug-buddy installed, you get gnome crash reports,but then, we'll fix that by final,i'll upload a new bug-buddy :),i haven't changed tool tips or anything like that, just changed the Exec line
sounds perfect
b-b uploaded
as I said earlier, that is a bug in the live CD,here
just asking these questions
here?
pign
the bug reporting menu item seems busticated,it tries to launch epiphany
it uses gnome-open,if you don't have a fresh install, it'll be a bit bong,so does mine
if I change it to select a web browser / mozilla firefox, it fixes things.is this fixable?,zero blockers,was making some noise about ubuntu-users
how are we going?
we even found some new ones and fixed those,dude, firefox 1.0 doesn't even exist yet :-)
we'll have it for final :)
how is the pub holding out?.everyone staying up for the preview release?
lots of people gone home - it's a school night ;-).how's it going?
final testing now.screenshots?
shit man, we didn't do screenshots!,d'oh!
yeah, why didn't YOU think of it? :-),I cannot for the life of me figure out how to use the gnome screenshot tool to get a snaphsot while of a menu open :-)
you can run it from the command line wth a timeout
what's the name of the program?.who did you subscribe to -devel? staff?
no one,everyone's on users, devel's opt-in
care to update the FAQ on that one?
icons? was just looking to see if someone wrote one ;)
yes :-),something like "you love it! you know you do!",looks like kdebase-bin is not built in universe
aha..got stats?
what, like ISO downloads?
when was the last cd build?
the last CD build was the preview
tops
finished a bit after 1400 UTC,because it's in contrib/non-free
mm, just remembered,hey, i got the bsdutils thing,just doing an integrity check
oh? interesting
check didn't even start and it said, "no valid ubuntu cd-rom"
md5 OK?
just running it now,hrm, can't md5sum it - i/o error,must've made a coaster
zdnet, osnews, slashdot, lwn...anywhere else?
distrowatch, linuxbeta, yada yada,some i don't know about.do we have germinate output on one of the public webservers?
can you send me that subscription list?
i did
is there any way to get the _full_ subscription list through the mailman web interface?
not without paging.do you want a list?
yeah, for ubuntu-devel
mailed it from rince
subject: ?,arrived,hmm, the email from rince arrived now,most of the good FAQ stuff is moved into plone now; the wiki only has recent additions
mmm. i don't think that's such a great idea. but anyway.
I like it fine, but take it up with the website mafia if you disagree :-).is ubuntu-devel gatewayed to some other list?.ping?
here
hi, if I rang you I don't remember what it was about :-)
wow, you stripped that down well ;).right?.what's ubuntu-base going to be used for, btw?
woody->warty post-upgrade tool, universe enabling script, stuff like that
ahr, excellent,that upgrade report sounded good,but now my firewall is mipsel ;).so that "tack a new dsdt thingy to the end of your initrd" thing went into -3, right?
no,what went into -3 was the latest ACPI patch
unless you actually want to load a different dsdt ;)
tacking things onto the end of the initrd is crack,downgraded just to make sure we're clear :-)
downgraded?,oh.,i resolved it wontfix too
yes, I downgraded it when it was already resolved.confirm?
yes, absolutely
"the"?  several others seem to work that way as well
the which who what?,|| -> | :-)
or we could rename the package ubuntu-desktop-dont-panic-you-can-remove-this
(i still think the tasks thing was fine)
for the silent majority of users who *don't* install totem-xine, this is better :-)
yeah, means we don't have to provide an upgrade mechanism smarter than dist-upgrade,which is kinda handy, given that i'll have to do the package :)
none of them are my type
well, i have logo options too, but that'd be boring for the first update. :)
the question should be, which of them is more "November"?
y'know, that's very true,november is the month of shopping headaches, caused by the early onset of christmas music
for shopping headaches, definitely the blonde,this is _so_ a top-down decision :-).are you on DST now as well?
yeah,hrm, that's not what our X team says. :-)
are you sure about that?
relatively, yeah. daniel is always harping on about how broken they are.,supposedly, something is changing in the near future.
he rants about both of them; the nv driver is *so* worse.are those your pants, cast asunder in the background?
oh, we have dailies now?,let me know when there's a better url than http://www.ubuntulinux.org/wiki/LiveCDAnnouncement
WAR
s/WAR/GET OUT OF THE WAY/,(erk, thanks)


does make things easier...,that doesn't solve the root cause,I'm doing new images / vectors now
he's talking about the console....what happens if you have a grub image set up and the 'press esc' thing turned on?.will it still paint the image?,... :-)
oh, I found that screen dimming I was complaining about.  pbbuttonsd controls that, too.,It apparently only does it when you're running on battery power, by default.
do you have a recommended change to the defaults?
yeah, it dims automatically if you're idle for 60 seconds.
does that suck?,the bottom bar in bz looks like baby spew!,btw, bz.org looks tops.mdz: possibility of doing a WartyWarthog -> Ubuntu product name migration?,mdz: i'd like to start putting milestone targets on bugs, which will make slightly more sense if we do that,no,we'll have to see if sabdfl is worried about potential apple tizzy. i suspect he wouldn't be. :-),ahar,the latter.,download the other deb and dpkg -i
hihi.fg <process>?,hmm.laptop?,never had it here
you're not using a ibook. :P,talk to fabbione about X, at least.,get yourself a real computer. ;)
can I send you the bill? :P,machine perhaps :),don't need you mirror now, finnaly got the image down
you don't make sense, but I guess that's ok.
do you have a ftp/apache running on your machine at school/samfundet with sounder images?
I'm rsyncing it down to vawad now, but the wlan here sucks a bit.
ok,I got the image burned already now,by a pentium-m laptop :P
I'm going to get an X40 for xmas, I think.,--partial keeps partial downloads.  Very nice if you run out of space or something.
saw that, nice for backup-solutions
howso?
my name is HC, so I highlite hc :P
bah, silly person.,thinkpad buttons,uses some osd thingy to make volume changing and such look fancy,I can show you tomorrow..work, yes.  But does it show it onscreen?
I said they work ;),you don't make sence :P,if you can cough up 145k before inovation Norway can, I can by a couple of my planned AMD64 systems
you should be careful about what you wish for. ;)
do you seed from Gls?
unnskyld is seeding, iirc.
ok, then there is no point in me doing that too on Trafoen?
actually, it's dessverre
*fnis*
hm, seems like the torrents are gone now.
torrents are gone?
ATM, yes.  thom is looking into it,the torrent tracker is down for some reason.  We're working on fixing it. :)
I stoped seeding anyway, since dessverre is seeding, and we use the same uplink :)
that should be done automatically by the via driver.
again you use should ;)


anyone else missing "tree" ?
from main?,it's exactly like the Debian kernel,please file a bug,i think the problem is related to USB only. all the otherstuff is a chain of things that goes banana
yes I too think it's a chain reaction. It's strange that udev freezes too, and I couldn't complete the reboot.
udev is full of race conditions afaict.you around?
more or less 
ok.. can you use the step 3 config and fix it to see what needs to be changed?,yes i read the log.,screen not found is a consequence of the no matching mode,i would like you to not change the driver
need other tests with X? can I restore good config ?
thanks.. just go ahead
running an upgrade from aptitude right now, X asked me what about my video card... I have not reinstalled the autodetection tools since the tests of 2 days ago,fwiw the config works as is
yeah that is ok,thom is your bitch ;)
WTF?,gnome-cups-icon is using 617M virt mem,  410 RSS..
a valgrind run of g-c-i would be a good start. the only valgrind run i've seen put the leak in "???" which doesn't really help,and of course remove it from the session first otherwise you won't be able to restart it in valgrind
http://129.241.103.250/~tfheen/gnome-cups-icon.pid5281,http://129.241.103.250/~tfheen/gnome-cups-icon.pid5809
can you run it for longer, i think its the cupsLangGet (record 145)
sure.. I'll let it run for ten minutes?,(or I could run it for a day, if you so prefer..)
a few minutes will do,let it grow a few meg so the leak is clear,i think i've found the leak
throw a package at me and I'll give it a shot.
email address?
please, an URL?
www.burtonini.com/temp/
that's a downgrade, though
give me another 5
seems to leak still
newer debs, try again.
ok, running now,leaks a bit again.
but slower? thats a good start :)
no, with 1.9-2 it was slower, now it seems about the same speed again,I'll just let it run for a bit,hmm.. might have stabilized itself now.,I'll let it run in valgrind for a while and see.
ah, great
ok, I'm happy.  It seems to have stopped leaking..do you want the valgrind log for the last 30 minute run?
if it has stopped leaking, don't bother,you are a hero
no root password asked ,too
no root password is OK,root account is locked.did you use a sounder cd or a daily cd?
Do must I use the daily one ?


has 2 questions, somebody with some ideas here perhaps ?,sorry I've not idea of the problem, and people seems to be more interested by the gnome-cups leak here :)
do I must to use the daily cd instaed ?,no pb
no, sounder 7 should be fine ...
and about the installer pb we discussed ? did I must report the pb to debian or to bugs.nny..I have to make an install report ?
better to do if possible yes
oky
that's a question for fabbione ,mail the list so you'll get a reply later


hey guys
hey dude. sorry to hear about your multiple losses :\
it sucks :/.got my mail?
which one?,i shall
just don't reconfigure or upgrade X :-)
hah
will have time to do it properly,WHAT HAVE YOU DONE TO THE KERNEL THIS TIME? :P,btw ubuntu10 is up with all the fixes
ok, cool
in ubuntu11 i already killed the novt stuff
it was never there
there was the patch,wake up kid
ber
?
'wake up kid'
oh... hmmm... i can't remember...,i am getting old
yes ;P
oh yeah.. it was about the xfonts...,just read above
sure, i have split source packages for xfonts ready to go
so do i
yes, but yours suck :P
it's a waste of bw each time we upload X
yes, i know. that's why i advocate splitting the fonts.
we still build them once... just do it once and stop doing it.. that was the idea
right. do you want the source package that does that, and nothing else? it's right here :)
 have a package already,i will see if i finish with all the details,no i actually stripped down to minimum the xfree86.orig.tar.gz and still build them.,always = one time,of course... if you do it right
still don't see the point, to be honest
well.. i am old and tired.. i can't remember everything :).what is the status of xresprobe?
working on it this week
do you have idea on how to fix #840?
um, afaict it's all to do with the kernel driver,you can write out a module options file (/etc/modutils.d/mouse or something) that has 'options mousedev xres=foo yres=bar'
that's exactly what i would love to avoid,i think we need to depend on discover1
why depend? doesn't it just error out if it can't get it?
put down the pipe kid...,the problem is NOT discover
that's one problem, and it should be fixed. i think it is fixed.
no it's not the same issue.does it sound reasonable to you?,sounder mailing list
why not just check if discover exists, and if it doesn't, ask for the driver?
to try to avoid one question
huh?,if ! which discover; then db_input xserver-xfree86/config/driver; fi
ok. let me repeat the situation again,as above.. it doesn't work for all card.
well, you're the X maintainer, and mdz's the CTO; move to a dep if you want, but I just think it's massively overprotective.i'm afraid that maybe i don't quite get it - in what situations do we have (!discover && newconfig)?,i'd love to kick discover to universe, and it's crap, but if people already have it, it works, thanks to the discover_video() in config (maybe postinst, either way)
that doesn't matter. i prefer discover1 in general, since at least it is maintained,it is only a recommends, i am not going to purge the code that supports discover2
PING,1792 is busted
you are busted
no it's not, my bad,sorry
tsk :P
backporting the ati driver from x.org cvs this late in the game for r4xx support (or even just the relevant patch from ati); thoughts?
nope.. we are too close to release to introduce new bugs
morning
stupid question.. how complex would it be to make nv/nvidia driver wrapper ala ati?
sweet mother of god, dude
no.. no need to do it. i am just curious how complex would it be
not horrifically. the biggest part would just be function() { invokeotherfunction(); }
think carefully... than gimme an answer :-)
could be down to ~30 lines if you wanted
i mean something that WORKS :P
but you'd probably need to replace the config handler with your own custom one that silently threw out nvidia options when you were using nv.sure you mean coffee and not smack?
ok.. it's already too complex for warty,if i can't see it simple in the morning, it's not going to be better later
i could do it in two hours, but especially given i not only don't own an nvidia card, but have no desire to, i can't test it
i can test it with no problems and anyway i think the config options are the same,i need to check the README from nvidia.com,tho i still think it won't make it in time for warty
basically, init would be about ten lines, trying to open nvidia and then nv, and then storming into the loader's internal structures, replacing its own moduleinfoptr with that of the one you just generated for the real submodule
that's more or less what i had in my mind
yeah. easy, but fuck me it's ugly.
isn't what ati does (more or less)?
guess why i always campaign for using r128/radeon directly :P,ati isn't quite on that level of nasty, anyway
yeah i could guess so...,  * Allocated 10 patch slots (989-998) for warty.
rad
^^
cool,the discover1-data and discover1 uploads should take care of the last of our discovery worries,if there are any more problems, they're in your configure scripts :P
yeah sure...
seeya
i will pass the package to you after for ati
i'm not doing ati,huzzah
can you reproduce it for me?.can you send me the diff between ubuntu14 and ubuntu15?,please just keep me in the loop.. it makes my life easier to keep track of the changes
sure,it's pretty small - fix up the link, and add a patch to build XKB with -DNOISY,um, I can't reproduce that gdm problem btw,http://people.no-name-yet.com/~daniels/xfree86-ubuntu14-to-15.diff
we need to kill the resolution sort thingy
no
i have the same problem here as everybody else
most monitors i've seen have an optimum resolution, and n+1, which is the highest it goes, which looks like arse
dude.. read carefully what Oskuro wrote,we just need to kill the highest resolution probed on crt
what's so dangerous about having it at the end of the list?
it's not dangerous, X uses the first entry in mode as resolution, but the highest one as size for virtual desktop,that is rather annoying,i also explained that to the mailing list a while ago
er, how's it ending up with a virtual desktop size?
     66 Aug 25 To: sounder@lists.no-name-yet.com    (5507) . about X resolutions on non-laptops (xresprobe)                       
got it. yeah, that's total arse. i'll upload a new xresprobe later tonight, 'kay?
sure..,yup
don't joke about kubuntu, i'm serious,ok, we're eliminating the top resolution completely now
yes.. and i am santa
but we're doing it sanely - taking frequencies into account,looks like we need another sort -u.wtf? could you please send me the output of sh -x /usr/share/xresprobe/ddcprobe.sh ?
the sort -unr that you call is useless,sort uses \n as separator while the string has " "
on, arse,hm, any way to change this? i'd really prefer not to have to do space->newline, sort, then newline->space
man sort?
already done,new version
looks ok here
sensational,the other change in 0.4 which i think i forgot to changelog is that i cleaned up all the copyrights,no changes, just putting them on all the files (novel!).... why -common?
dexconf
ho hum,sync may do it
i was talking about LVM on RAID,i don't use fancy filesystems,i leave that tasks to kids ;)
you're getting dull in your old age, dad :P
daniels ,mdz: X drivers update... as far as i can tell we need to update the nv driver and the wacom driver. daniels also had the ati stuff pending and there is a patch for r200 in the BTS to fix a segfault (or something similar)
i think mdz is asleep, but i believe the r4xx verdict is warty point release.do you mean the r200 dri stuff?,if so, i'm torn -- it's a pretty huge semantic change, but it does come from upstream cvs, and r200 dri seems quite solid there,i don't see the harm if it's out there on a plate for us
yeah it's a 1600 lines patch :(
i'll take the wacom stuff
what about the nv?
i think we should just take the entire nv driver from 6.8, tbh
i don't mind if you want to do the updates at all
cool
it was just to take a decision and coordinate,just send me the usual ubuntu15 -> ubuntu16 patch
well, if i take wacom and i'll cop the ati stuff as well, do you want nv?,yeah,i'm chasing up some far more serious issues atm, however
i would rather prefer if you update stuff from upstream,since you know where to dig and what to replace,i can test the nv driver and the ati, if that's what you want
ok, that'd be good thanks
i was just thinking that perhaps the drivers updates should all come as ubuntu patches on top what's in the tree already. It will make it much simpler to revert if something is wrong.
hmmm,heh! ati driver considered harmful, on debian-x,should we start moving to using r128/radeon? i'm happy to make the discover1-data change
easy... what/where?,changes in discover1 will be useless
... why?,we use discover1-data for all our installs
X will need to be changed too,because before there was the difference between r128 and ati.. ,let's just work on updating and testing the drivers,also.. we need to talk with mdz and sabdfl to see if we can organize a X-men session.you around?
sup?
nm.. i have tried to merge the nv driver from xorg but it's a real pain,xaa and other stuff needs backporting too
??,oh yeah -- i see the problem. hm.,0.4.3 uploaded
ping.are you around?
pong
i am kinda implemeting the changes you were talking about X.do you have any patch or bug fix you want to give to me?,i have been re-reading the talk we had and i was srong on a couple of things,so i kinda agree on the stuff that had to be done,yes
we already have a XRESPROBE_DEBUG; it could be a lotmore friendly (by sayig wht it's throwing away and what it's keeping), but it's verbose enough that we canbeat l the info out of it pretty easily
it's 9 am here and i will be around until 5 pm. probably back around 9 pm,check here:
that's awesome, thankyou very much
ok... we will keep the drivers update for ubuntu17 if that's ok for you?,also because the nv driver is a real bitch,uploading ubuntu16 right now
with just those changes?,schumacher didn't come first, what a tragedy,nope, that's fine with ubuntu16
no it's not a tragedy,barrichello was supposed to win..
i might do something extra for ubuntu17, but i forgot what it is
ok.. let's keep that for ubuntu17.,jdub: ubuntu16 is up...
cool. i'm honing the ati shit right now, and I'll drop you 17 with ati and wacom later tonight
ok send me the patches for testing.
'course
if you can manage the nv driver it would be very nice,for a full nv driver drop, you need also xaa and other bits.
yeah. my current strategy is just a wholesale backport rather than trickling in individual changesets since there's no way to tell what they're even doing,yeah, i'm working on that,i think i can get rid of the new-xzz dep
ok... don't mess too much around,i am afraid our ubuntu17 has been just trashed :)
ahr, heh,morning dude
i need to upload an ubuntu17 asap
what's in ubuntu17?
i am working on the nv driver.
is ubuntu17 up yet?,um dude, we're in freeze
yes,it's critical. too many bug reports in debian too
yeah, fo'sho
uploaded a few minutes ago
there are different problems,not surprised :\
what about the wacom driver?,if both in debian and here doesn't work properly...
i'll throw you over a source package with ati and wacom stuff later -- i'm back at dad's place now for a bit
we should consider raising the severity
could you please look at xresprobe 0.4.6 at http://fooishbar.org/daniel/xresprobe/ and if it looks good, consider sponsoring it?
just gimme the patches :-) i don't need an entire source tree :-),ok
no access to them right now, dude ... they're on my home machine, which isn't dialed in right now
if the nv driver is not going to compile within today, we will have approx 24 hours to package X.org :P
heh
wake up dude,tell jeff that we want to see pics of him doing the ubuntu dance with X variant,otherwise better for him not to show up at the next meeting :P
heh :)
nv driver is rocking. i am slimming down the patch,and doing a decent integration right now
awesome, well done
yeppa... the patch is much smaller now!.you around?
sup
the driver works fine. i am doing the last build and i will upload on people,i already committed to XSF,the previous driver was really borked
awesome :)
you need to strip the @ before the sort
no!,actually ... yes,no, I did :),ubuntu19 and xresprobe 0.4.7, hooray
how fucked is 0.4.6?
it doesn't do its n-1 stuff right,if the top resolution has two refresh rates, it will only print the second one, instead of the top one
see also #271235.can you get in contact with upstream about the Xv problem?
I can try, but we don't have any nv guys -- only nvidia themselves :\
better than nothing,ping
pong
what's the status for ati and wacom drivers?,we need to get them tested if we want them for final.also.. i am reading on the wacom site that we need updates to the kernel modules? is that correct?
yeah,yep,wacom is done, ati is about 80% completed (found a couple of bugs along the way), and yeah, i'll do the kernel update stuff,i'll do the ati testing in the same way as you did nvidia
there is no need of the kernel stuff,it's only for kernel older than 2.6.2
hrm, ok
please send me the patches and i will build a full ubuntu19 to put on people,the nv driver still has the Xv problem but it's much better than the one we have now,at least it works on some machine where the old one wasn't at all
didn't manage to solve the blitter thing?,what are your ubuntu19 changes so far? mine are just wacom and ati (with a couple of changes to the upstream ati driver)
not yet. I am working with Overfiend for it
cool
nv driver and a fix for a possible FTBFS,it is spreaded over the different pathces
we'll have craploads in denmark
we need to start checking stuff for your trip as well
my r200 and rv250, some mga cards, mach32, tseng, cirrus, a couple of early nvidias, the i810 in the x40 ....yes. what sort of dates -- start of november (to get it in hoary asap) or just before wartyconf?
beginning of november is ok with me,it will give us more time to work in case of problems
right. stock up on anti-static bags ;),heh,^^ i'm putting that into ubuntu10,heh :),pong,better than radeon_bios.c :\,hooray!.should we make SWCursor the default on Savage?
there are is a huge update of the savage driver between Xfree86 and X.org
yeah, but remember we already patch in a crapload of the savage updates ourselves
not at all
not too bad,the hardest thing will be managing the /usr/X11R6->/usr transition
that's the one i am thinking about :-))
luckily almost all the packages that use /usr/X11R6 (with the exception of some ghostscript fonts) are ours (xfree86, xrender, etc)
if they are not we will kill the maintianer,simply because of policy
http://unstable.buildd.net/index-i386.html
i guess it's a standard header for all pages...are you still at the hotel?,take it easy to come here.. i woke up not to long ago :-),and already fixed the keyboard stuff
cool, yeah, haven't even had breakfast yet,nice
putting up X.org on m68k for a build ...,i need to fsck around for a few minutes ;)
where do I get the debs? sign me up!
let's all go back to ConsoleFB!,you are still our little "kid"
ber,you're just jealous of my years of experience with Debian
no.. i am just jalous for not being 18
so I hit faster and harder on X? :).did we end up backporting unichrome, or not?
no.?
14:55 < veran> onjoin from Britney___
ok
if you could test l-r-m (it has two patches from thomas zander), that would be great, thanks
did you get my sms?
nope, phone got stolen on saturday
4818,and if you can kindly commit -8 to baz
yeah, I've just triaged 4818, and it's a non-fatal (i.e. only kills 3D, there is a workaround), and I actually wrote a local fix last night, mainly by accident,and -8 is in baz, foo ;)
it wasn't this morning ;)
hmmm, I committed it last night ... oh no, wait, I didn't,i typed 'baz commit', but my time at the internet cafe ran out,btw, that 'deal with pci domains that don't start at 0' hack adds a lazy 15000 file opens
well.. what is worst?
hm?
what is worst? opening 15500 files or not fixing that bug?
i dare say not fixing that bug :) i'm not arguing with it being fixed,fo'sho.  stupid people have no life, news at 11.
drive trough.. kthxbye
funny you should say that -- i've just been playing gta san andreas, doing a drive-by (and a drive-through) mission
ahaha,i saw GTSA yesterday in the shops but it's way too expensive
dude, that's way cheaper than here, I think
that's like 75 Euros
may I suggest irssi? ;)
no way :-)
oh, so it's not a straight-out abi change?
no,i have -4 686 and i can load nvidia


i don't know, sorry,!.output of lspci?
dunno - this is upgrading my system
what happens when you type 'xresprobe ati'?.whoa, that really sucks. can you please send me the output of ddcprobe?
you didn't remind me to be root... :-(.still want dccprobe output?
hm, weird
that was going from ubuntu9?? to current.as mortal: xresprobe ati; echo $?
x shouldn't ask questions at that stage; my best guess is that xresprobe/et al aren't installed before x is configured,!,fixed in new upload
of X?? :-(
no, xresprobe,I'm not *that* harsh
this is the EPERM bitch?
yah, $? wasn't getting properly passed down
sounder 3... :-(  Nowhere close to current
ah,try uxterm, or forcing use of Xft with '-fa mono' (or some other font),utf-8 love,yah,python introspection tool, iirc
yeah,I suspect that source is large too,pay no attention to the cluster inside the build process...
... dude.,does anything you have actually work as the creator intended? ;)
these aren't the droids you're looking for.... they can pass....,better to have a consistant Packages file, than part of an archive.
yeah, i think it's best if i let it go without thinking about it too much :P,night dude
tr '@x' '::' |sort -t: -k1,1nr -k2,2nr -k3,3nr,sort won't do multiple number keys unless you tell it to...
morning dude
you here
sup?


I currently see no bootsplash while booting warty. Is it normal ?,ok
sadly it looks like that's going to be a hoary feature instead,a group of people might want to produce a derivative of Ubuntu with KDE instead of GNOME ... if they're willing to follow the Ubuntu code of conduct, etc. there's no reason not to bless them as an official derivative
well, non-PIC won't work on amd64 ...
thanks for testing
other than baby-daniel's failure to upload a working version of discover1-data ... it looked great.would you accept a patch to xlibs to add support for the Right Ctrl key being mapped to Compose ?,Super key is still screwed in ubuntu12 :-(  have to press+release it for the workspace/window list to go away
no. the super key is ok as it is. Upstream won't roll back to the original behaviour because it will introduce other bugs..lspci -n ?
how is it ok?  shouldn't it act just like alt?,I'm just wondering ... has daniels added a 1002:* to discover?  (ATI make more than just video cards)
apparently no. i am trying to find the reference... just a second...lspci -n ?,http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=259740,the last part of the bug is interesting
so Super_L is a "fake key" ... how would GTK+ know it has to ignore that?
according to Ivan, applications have to be fixed....,i dunno. as i already explain other times i do not know kxb at all.,and we are just following upstream/ROCKS
at the moment it basically sounds like upstream are saying "it's the application maintainer's fault for not knowing about this silent, secret change we made and didn't tell anybody about, haven't documented and haven't done properly in the first place"
the problem is that upstream doesn't even say... and when he says only 2 persons can understand him.. and neither Branden and I are in that category
oh, and complete aside, GNOME's ignoring my cursor theme :'(
well yeah ..,bitch the right person :P,anyway if you have any patch idea or whatever.. better you add it to the debian bug asap,because in not too long i will close the merge from debian
well, I have an xkb patch which basically reverts the xlibs 4 behaviour
that will introduce other bugs. but i would need to check the references,they are somewhere.. i can ask Overfiend because i don't have references handy. but i am pretty sure you can find stuff in the changelog,since -4 didn,since -4 didn't have the changes it should be a limited research.isn't the correct term?
I'm teasing, don't worry :p
is that a kernel patch?
yeah, adds proper reset/restart support to the radeonfb driver
ok....why are you rebuilding X?
because daniels smiled sweetly
ready for Monza? ;),put a piece of poisoned cheed,oh...,well we can change color.. it won't change the result
none of the other teams have the *money* to get near Ferrari at the moment
well.. we have money because we win :-)
most of Ferrari's budget comes from Fiat/Ferrari ... it has little to do with their actual performance.who found it where?
i did :-)))),very close to my bank,nope.. i wasn't driving when it was stolen,my gf was,oh come on! share the torrent dud3!
the lictouch driver should be ok to put into X, but I want to test it here first,it just takes forever to compile
use ccache :-),there are no official mirrors atm
I know, but AFAIK Mithrandir got the .img on his computer


nforce 2,with the nv driver,I used my debian's XF86Config-4,nothing in XFree's logs,I wasn't sure, and I wanted to make sure it wasn't a config problem,I'll try again later with other drivers,yes,the screen is all black,(and the monitor doesnt go into power-saving mode),I then booted in single user mode and disabled gdm
please try to start X without gdm,ok that can explain..the one you were using before?.how would you feel to do a test for us and debian in one shot?,it is now.. it might be in debian too. that's why i need your help to test,no. don't do that
so, with the nv_drv.o from ubuntu, X didn't start in Debian
goody.. at least we know where the problem is,i need you to do a reportbug in debian,well you tested the svn trunk version of the driver,i was just waiting for you to show up :-),no rush :-),i need you to install xserver-xfree86-gdb and run a nice gdb session for that segfault,cool,just add the info to the bug...
where is that xfree86-xserver-gdb ?
before you rebooted i was going to write: 1) take the time you need 2) the same driver is in debian since yesterday
it just crashes, it doesn't segfault
thanks for the info
no problem
i am checking the code now, but i don't think it's a fix i can do myself,probably upstream :(,if you check the 2 output of xvinfo in the non-sarge one you will notice that there is a "Blitter Adapter" ,that is not present in the old one.are you running the x.org driver now?,i think i have a fix :-).mind to switch?,just switch to the driver.. i need you to test an option in mplayer,mplayer -vo xv port=0 or mplayer -vo xv port=1,one of them should work fine,sure
I have to install mplayer first (I'm on ubuntu)
ok. please use the x.org driver,it doesn't matter if you are in ubuntu or debian
port={0,1} doesnt change anything
ok just a second...,can you try to modify your X config adding: Screen 0 right below Driver "nv"
yes,same as before
ok...can you reproduce the bug with other players?
can you define other players ?
totem?.xine?.did you reproduce the problem?,check the man page.. iirc there is an option to force Xv,ok.. we identified 2 bugs :-))),the driver needs to be update to work with cards and mplayer doesn't select the proper viewport,try to use mplayer -vo xv port=53
it still doesn't work
check the port numbers with xvinfo :-),one of them has to work,given that mplayer works with that option,right. i was re-reading the man page right now,try with 0,1 first,with 2 selection usually you have 2 viewports,port base value is not the one we are looking for...,i am checking something...
I have to go, privmsg me if you want me to test something when I come back


speaking of X, do you know what the status of the meta/hyper RC bug in Debian's X is?
debian is pending upload,yesterday night
k,s/Usefull/Useful/ ;)
thanks :-),thanks... will fix soon
the new xfree resolved res detection
so it works fine for you?.ok. can you send us all the info, like video card, logs, configurations and so on?,at least to have an idea of what is wrong and what needs to be fixed.i know it's a bit long procedure... but would you mind to do step 3 again?
yes yes of course
thanks a lot!
I put all my log and conf on bmm80.free.fr/ubuntu/xfree86


I imagine it needs it for scp and sftp
see a dietician.
I hate those people.
new, basically (it's roughly equivalent to sounder),it'll phase out, we've split to devel and users
my battery status applet has died :[.anyone want a bug report?
well, yes. bugzilla does
oh you got it plugged in? cool.
100, not 1000
is the 1Gb still planned ?.you have an amd64 right?
i'll need to get ipv6 set up,prolly this evening if you nudge me
generally, if the correct component doesn't exist, use UNKNOWN.
10Mbit ethernet at the moment.
speak for yourself :-),I'd be inclined to paste the oops into a bug report,might require a bit of transcribing though
I'll see if Mithrandir wants that first - hey may tell me to go play with my other toys.where is grump going?
crack-of-the-day builds
while you are around... remember that amd64 occasional hang I was having ?
not really :).heat problems?
may well be, its high 20's here most of the time.,headless rocks.
hey, what dirs do you have in /proc/acpi/button ? same to anyone else with a acpi using laptop
my tr1mp is updating windows xp, can't answer right now :),but, my thinkpad a22m has lid, power, sleep
sup?
acpi results for you
ahah :-)
on the sony tr1mp there are two directories, 'lid' and 'power', inside lid is another directory, LID0 with files 'info' and 'state'. inside power is PWRB, with one file 'info'
torrent is blocked on the posi net, sadly.,otherwise i'd add a few more machines ;-)


AAAARGH! Since when the first installed Warty user has complete root capabilities through sudo?,I will talk to mdz about this.,But actually the separation of system administartion and normal usage was one of the best features of Unix
it has been said this will be an option for systems where it isn't a good idea
IMNSHO it isn't a good idea on _every_ system. *shrug*,yes, but then we should install two users: an administrator and a day-to-day user, not just one administrator.but what keeps a virus or other malicious program to use sudo as well?,entering a password is only required at the first time, then it is kept for a while,I checked this with carlos' ipod, worked fine.does the device node appear?,Can you ask Carlos about the modules? His' is working fine,Carlos Perell Marn <carlos@pemas.net>.great! What was missing?
:) you have to unload all usb and firewire kernel modules and restart hotplug
sounds quite straightforward. </irony>
yeah, easy. carlos said he'll file a bug when he remembers with the details
that is the wrong thing?
i've /dev/hdc /media/cdrom in fstab and hal mounted /dev/hdc on /media/cdrom0
argh, the symlink hack.however, does it still work that way?.i. e. is it mounted and can you access it?
https://bugzilla.no-name-yet.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1217
thanks,I suppose this should actually work as user,it works for normal cd-r (at least for me),my cdrecord isn't as well.does it work if you execute the burning program with sudo?,(or, just add the suid to cdrecord, for that purpose)
hm, still doesn't work
it should be enough to put /media/cdrom0 instead of /media/cdrom there,oh yes, /dev/cdrom won't work, too; it should be hda/hdb/sda/whatever
i have /dev/hdc
if you remove it, you will only lose the icons in the computer menu if the CD-ROM is not mounted,would be great if you could verify that it works that way,I guess you have to log out and back in to restart gnome-vfs,yep, currently you need CD drives in fstab,this is our current policy, no non-fstab IDE devices,great, the automounting did not interfere? (#1234)
this dvd was unformatted or something
for VFAT?
hm, dunno
mkfs.vfat supports this, but actually I did not want to kill my usb stick content for that...,yes, but only for usb-storage devices
ah ok] ,ooh new HAL, great.
does it work?
i'll find out in a minute,i presume the hal postinst restarted the daemon
but you have to relogin
shouldn't it have an init script?
it does restart hal and dbus, but that kills gnome-volume-manager,bug #1551.I took a look at eject to debug your iPod hanging; does calling eject from the console work?


AAAARGH! Since when the first installed Warty user has complete root capabilities through sudo?
last week
but why shall we go back to Windows 95, security-wise?,up to now I told every Linux user that he should work as a normal user to avoid system damage...,right, I do. Non-native english...,I know the difference, just a typo. BTW, d-i now works just _great_!,no more silly network questions
this is a pretty new thing, I think discussion is still perfectly reasonable ...
I will try to do some bad things with the sudo approach. I know too little about it to really give competent statements, I think..mdz: instead of printing three or four commands, can we have a small script for that?,agreed."Security advice, please read carefully:" ?,there will still be people who ignore it, but they won't care much about security anyway,no, in fact I think it is one of the basic wisdoms of system construction
that's definitely considered a bug,(that we use gksu rather than gksudo, that is)
still there?
not for much longer, but yeah
we still need another group to put the first user in, for accessing removeable devices like cameras, usb sticks, etc.,we want to restrict mount/umount access to this group ,and also gphoto device node access,but this must be done already in base-config,the name was slightly discussed in #810, but it did not come to a conclusion
unless it has to be a global static group (in which case it has to go into Debian's base-passwd, at least in svn), I don't really mind about the name,you're welcome to modify base-config yourself to add that group once the name and function are decided
Okay, I will do. What do you think of 'plugdev'?,'devices ,'devices' is too generic, I think,same for me, don't have a better idea for a short and good name,actually the new group does the same as 'cdrom', but this name is misleading for the new intention.,the problem with a new group would be how to handle a seamless update from woody and older wartys,if I just upload a new restricted mount, this would break upgrades, i. e. the users could not mount any more,I just prepared an updated base-config. Did you deliberately not call debconf-updatepo? Because I did it now and it changed quite much
I probably forgot, it's called on build anyway,I'm not surprised it changes lots
okay. The changes are only line numbers and three added (untranslated) templates,I translated the German templates, while I was at it,Just asking, I'm a bit nervous to change such a central package :-),I think this is excusable :-) If you change other templates, just ask me, I will translate them.,Hopefully this stuff will get a lot easier with Rosetta
*nod*
with the current pmount policy IDE CD-ROMs cannot be pmounted anyway because IDE devices are not "removeable",I did not think about that this morning,so the CD-ROMs should stay in fstab until we change this policy,because it cannot do the root tasks of mount,it is a wrapper for users, no replacement.it could be a diversion, but wouldn't that create confusion?,yesterday :-)
oh, was it? sorry, I lose track of the days :-)
I know, but what's the actual purpose of group disk? It essentially means root access,but you cannot decrypt the root password,:-),Then we need a way to change the group of only the removeable devices,that's exactly what we needed,I can try to find a sane way,I was just wondering about the purpose of disk in general,agreed. ,I basically see two hacks of udev:,Okay, I will try to find a way to tell the devices apart in udev.,I still try to fix #996 (remember our discussion about the 'disk' group?).do you think it is a problem if I change only the removable devices to root:plugdev?,yes, in udev. I have a solution ready,I'm just askign about the principle,since you told me that you did not want to break the 'disk' group,by now I only want to change the Warty version.are there finally 2.6.8.1 images for powerpc?
apparently not yet
thanks. I already thought I missed sth. So d-i will use different kernel versions for different arches?
d-i's fully capable of doing that, and it already does; it hopefully won't for the final warty release though,that may be very difficult,I'm sure PowerMac CD-ROMs aren't the only devices which require software eject, though
ZIP drives do as well
it's in warty base
regarding CD-ROM entries?
and floppies
we should leave them in fstab by now; floppies and CD-ROMs cannot be mounted by pmount currently,we could change pmount policy for that, but it's a bit late I think,in addition, it is nice if the CD-ROM appears in the computer window even if no CD is present.Now I tried to install Warty on two totally different computers. On none of them snd-pcm-oss and snd-mixer-oss are loaded. Do you think we can get this in by the release?,that wasn't d-i's fault
already sorted, see bug #1166
thanks. This just missed today's daily :-/.can I upload a new base-config with updated German translations tomorrow or does that somehow interfere with your actions?.or is there another translation strategy?,okay, I will do that.the untranslated string during base-install is in passwd, not base-installer; shall I send you a bug report or directly upload?
please file a bug for that
I did,why this archive-copier is enabled by default anyway? To me it looks like a waste of hd space and time
Mark's decision; it lets you avoid having to put the CD back in in the second stage
the powerpcs don't boot from cd by default anyway, so the CD could be left in the drive,okay; unavoidable argument :-),ah! That should be explained in the help texts. thanks for that hin!,s/hin/hint/.do you happen to know why some packages are in main _and_ universe?.if a package is never in universe, it will be prefered, right?,and the Warty changes are lost.,I don't know about the sync policy in the future,if we don't sync, we lose security and other fixes,on example is gnocatan, I requested a sync to get rid of a security bug
yes but I mean not routinely,I don't think there's a need to debate the rights and wrongs really, it's clearly a bug :)
okay, thanks for that info,Thanks a lot!.do you want to write a followup to the bug on your own or shall I do that?
would you mind? my bugzilla password is, er, somewhere, and the firefox on the freshly installed system obviously doesn't remember it ...
I meant the Debian bug, but I can do that anyway.,sorry, wrong adress; should be Kinnison
aha, right
will there be another subdaily CD build today? With all the gnome 2.8 crack?
yes
great!
but not just yet, a couple of hours from now
thanks for the new CD image
if you have other things to do before preview then please don't regard this as a priority for preview
Currently I don't. Everybody that I asked said they were fine :-),besides, it's 01:30 here, I will probably mess up delicate coding work
:-P.can #1233 be RESOLVED/INVALID in our bugzilla?
of course, I just wanted to do it
it does, just start at /cdimage/,rsync doesn't do virtual hosting
ah, thanks a lot! This helped.there are still some untranslated d-i questions; I translated the German ones yesterday, will they make it at least to final in Oct?
yes, I'll process that lot after preview
Okay. Most of the common stuff is translated, so it's not too ugly
we're going out with ubuntulinux.org
it isn't possible to pass initrd=... as kernel parameter?
you can pass it if you like but it doesn't work ...
ugly...
I read the code in some detail a while back, there's simply no support for interpreting initrd= as something yaboot should load
I always thought that the kernel loads the initrd...
yaboot certainly loads it if configured to do so ... AFAIK the bootloader loads the initrd and passes a pointer to the start of it to the kernel,we want to do it in d-i too
in this case the old initrd should still work, shouldn't it?
probably, unless the module he's recompiling is in the initrd
even in this case, would it matter? it should be compatible and he can always unload and reload it 
quite
s/keeps to/keeps from/
we have tty_tickets turned on, by the way,so the virus would have to be running on the same tty as the user sudoing
do you think that is uncommon?.if I do some admin stuff under X, then go to Evolution and download a virus mail?.will that work with tty_tickets?
sure, each x term gets a different tty - look at the output of w
but normally users won't start programs in xterm (okay I do, but I'm not an average user),thanks for that info. I will look at it, at least it seems not to be as bad as I initially thought.
i suspect the correct thing for X applications (ie, things running on :0) is to not cache a ticket,but then user changes password, root doesn't change, more confusion
I think there is a difference: scripts may use sudo, but cannot login as root
not really an X thing, since  they're set with sysctl
of course. and I'm glad that this is so, because otherwise I could not use gpm :-)
rock,gksudo works fine here, too, fwiw
thanks for testing. This is odd... Maybe a powerpc specific thing. I'll debug this, I don't like crashing root programs,we could set PCM to 70%, unmute master and leave master at 0. Many users will be able to find the loudspeaker icon in the gnome panel and drag it up
that would seem saner
but many will not try to look for a separate mixer application to control the other channels
right click on the loudspeaker, open volume control, same as windows
oh, okay. I don't know Windows :-),so far I even have to get to know GNOME,(I'm an old text console freak and it's hard to change such habits)
you have -2 weeks ;-)
should be more than enough :-),no, seriously, if we break a single window with the default, somebody will kill us, or do sth even worse,could make a nice startup animation :-),nice :-) we both reported the not-so-eject problem at the same time :-)
i think everyone agrees that in principal it's a good idea. we just have to work out which system, and how to present it to the user
grsecurity has the advantage that it also brings a lot of other security-enhancing patches, PaX is not the least important one :-),however, SELinux is upstream in Linux, so it is a good candidate
nod. (to both points)
did you claim yesterday that gksudo did not segfault at your machine?
i did indeed
 I did not hallucinate. It took me a few hours, but I know the reason,the f**ing beast reads 256 bytes into a 16 byte buffer,maybe you just were lucky.you should have never get any error messages, did you?,gksudo reads the output of sudo
only if you magically automount as soon as someone tries to access it again :-)
but it is still "used" if the device nautilus window is still open
windows sticks a notification icon in for such things, to let you eject them
never seen it first hand
this is the lack of wlan-ng? right
morning!,I'm just at preparing an updated pumount which provides option -l for lazy unmount. Should help you with your hal changes.are you already working at the lazy unmount hal?
yes
I want to add lazy unmounting to pumount, but that got more difficult than I thought,because if the device node is not present any more, I cannot stat /dev/whatever to find out the major device number of the device to be removed,this means that I cannot check if the device is removable,and I cannot just use the name to lookup /sys/block/<device name> because devfs may be used,I just wanted to say that this "little" item might last a bit longer because it might need to be discussed with mdz
no worries, i shall catch up on my email first then :-)
did you follow the discussion?
yeah
Mithrandir: I will prepare an updated pmount package, but won't upload it yet.,you are lagging behind. :-),https://chinstrap.warthogs.hbd.com/~pitti/pmount/,this contains a proposed new package you can test for the hal change,I will discuss that with mdz before, so please don't upload hal yet,I tested the new pmount quite thoroughly now, so it should work
ok.so just 'pumount -l /dev/foo', right?
yep,however, this does only work as the same user who mounted the device,this was not checked before
uh, that's not gonna work for hal then
I just got the same thought,actually this should be done by gvm
it can't
but we must check this, otherwise users can unmount root-mounted devices which are not in fstab,hal should send a "ripped out" message to gvm, gvm should call pumount,hmmm. Problem.
sure, but hal only sends the udi, not the device info
gvm is capable of figuring out the device from an udi
not after the device is removed, it isn't
BTW, this was crap anyway. gvm should not do it, but gnome-vfs2
shrug
if I tell mdz that I modified pumount to allow hal to unmount any device, he will kill me
ok, i'll look at fixing hal to expose the device that was removed
can't gnome-vfs figure out the device from the udi?,right. hal should not have any policies, including (u)mounts,I think gnome-vfs is the right place to do that, and it runs as the normal user
the problem is that by the time the removed signal is emitted by hal and recived by g-v-m, the device is gone and hal knows nothing about it, so you can't resolve from udi to device
by the time of the removal, isn't it still contained in hal's database?
nope
this sounds strange. Just before hal purges it from its db (after getting the hotplug message) it still has the device entry.can't the message be sent out in between?.what does upstream do with this?
certainly this is what i'm seeing. when the hal_device_removed callback gets run, hal_device_get_property_string can't get block.device
yes, the callback is certainly too late..if that's possible?,sth like hal_device_about_to_be_removed :-)
upstream have fixed it by umounting in hal :/,*nod*
providing a new callback sounds cleaner than just saving the device and using it later,this even sounds general enough to get this upstream,I have to go for another round of fighting with the fiscal authorities, will return later (around 1400 UTC, I hope).hmm. you mean just call deviceRemoved earlier?,sounds as if it would make sense, too, then the clients could still query the db,I don't know the exact implications of this, however.so currently hal removes the db entry and calls the callback?.and you want to swap that?,sounds reasonable
yeah
thanks! I will look at the interdiff when I'm back,(or, it just will become a patch in debian/patches, I suppose),CU!.Hi, I'm back. Any news?
hal sucks. still looking
agreeing to the hal statement.,Ah, I already noticed that gvm killed itself, but never found out the cause of it...,I would have never imagined :-),hi!
i have an upload ready for noweb, btw
with the fixed tmp creation?,I'm right at fixing it.,great timing, thanks!.great! Can you upload it and annouce it to #271146?,thanks!,ah, I just saw that duplicate bug. that explains the duplication of effort :-)
have you looked at 1199 or shall i take it (Samba DOS)
so far I did not look at it,so if you have time for it, go ahead :-).you didn't upload noweb yet, did you?
nope, waiting on approval,it's"cool" spelt sillily
ah, thanks..what's the status of #1203 (webdav)? shall I apply the patch?
read the bug :-)
I did. If you can change the thing tomorrow before the CD build, fine :-)
co-ordinated release
okay. Just looking for bugs to help with :-)
:-)
do you know when the final CD build is really due? I'm asking because of #1203
yeah, we're at T+5 :-)
Your hal upload invalidated my pending patch :-) I have to wait for mdz to get up...
heh, sorry. does it really conflict?
no, I suppose not. No need to excuse, just funny
:-)
but it takes a lot of work to tame this beast.didn't you upload hal 1ubuntu11 recently?,it's still not in the archive and I need to fix two bugs in hal
^
I use the German mirror. Obviously it did not propagate there yet,thanks


don't shoot the messenger :)
Kamion: I don't want to shoot anybody :-), I just got very, very frightened...,FULL ACK. Then we could as well have all people work as root,ah, that's why I'm unable to umount the device on my iBook :-),npmccallum already prepared a version which uses pmount,and doesn't need an fstab entry,is it possible to include an eject/umount/whatever option in the normal nautilus menu? I don't have a context menu,(because Ubuntu doesn't automatically install mouse button emulation)
I don't think so, but I'm sure there is a keyboard shortcut to open the menu
do you also happen to know which?,don't bother, if you don't know I can google myself,Shift-F10.so do you see any obstacles for adding the same context menu entry for pmounted devices which don't have a fstab entry?,this will require to use 'pumount /dev/foo' instead of 'umount /dev/foo', other changes should not be necessary.is it a know bug/todo item that all icons in GNOME look only like a white sheet of paper?
read the last IRC screen
yes, sorry..Morning! Do you have some time to help me with adding USB device support to Nautilus?.I've never seen the code before, it'll take me a while to find the proper start. Do you already know where the changes must be made?,if an USB volume is plugged in, gvm mounts it, but Nautilus does not show the device/allows to umount it again.do you know who I can ask about Nautilus code?,the word 'fstab' does not occur in the code ,(but for some Changelogs and inclusion of <fstab.h>,do you instantly know which package contains the "Computer" menu entries? I would like to translate them completely,the menu one,thanks!,whoopy, did jdub send a mail about this recently? I look in the archives....shall I send you the updated po file?.or jdub?,I'm taking care of the German translation of gnome-panel
ok
I just noticed an error in the English gnome-panel sources: there is no word "informations", it's information..maybe you want to send an updated mail? Or just do a sed -i 's/informations/information/g'?,just "information"
"Display informations about Ubuntu", you would remove the "s" to information in this string ?
Okay, I'll followup.shall we add a complete po file header or are the translations itself enough?
the translation of the string is enough, I'll just append it to the nn.po files,are you sure that's an utf-8 file ? I've weird chars in utf-8 and iso modes ...
I'm looking again at it,maybe the mta/mua messed it up. I send it again gzipped.does gksudo crash at the end on your box?
at the end of what ?
see above. whenever I execute 'gksudo whatever' I get a segfault at the end,just type 'gksudo true' in a terminal
no, doesn't crash,the translation is ok this time
odd. thanks for trying.,unless you want to do that yourself :-),good morning,there are still two untranslated items in my Computer menu,"about Ubuntu" and "Printing",IIRC "About Ubuntu" should belong to yesterday's translation ,interestingly, the bubble help of About Ubuntu is translated
the string is in your po file, I'll check for the next upload
the "Printing" string is somewhere in the gnome cups packages?.we really need Rosetta, don't we?
yeah :)
why not really? the window opens on plugin automatically, it should umount at window close
because my cdrom spin each tome,and that's really annoying,I want to keep my cd mounted.here ?
I'm back,I will eat my pizza now, returning in 15 minutes
"Go to the Desktop folder" -> de ? and "Ubuntu Help and Documentation" -> de ? please :),ok, no hurry, latter
what do you mean by "go"? Open a window? or change the directory in a browser?,Help&Doc -> "Ubuntu-Hilfe und Dokumentation"
same as "Go to the Home folder" and "Go to the Documents folder" that you have already translated,ie: open a window on the folder
ah, "Den Desktop-Ordner anzeigen",not literally, but sounds much better than "go",I did not start eating it yet :-) But I will do now.,did you already upload? I'd like to change two translations,the bubble help of "Home" should be "Den persnlichen Ordner anzeigen"
I'll upload in 1-2 hours, so you have time for changes
I think the umlauts in IRC are broken, I'll send you a mail
no, that's fine
the Umlauts work?
yes, my xchat is in UTF-8 charset
Great! To make the translations consistent, I would like to change the previous two translations:,Home -> "Den persnlichen Ordner anzeigen",Desktop -> "Den Desktop-Ordner anzeigen",Documents -> "Den Dokumenten-Ordner anzeigen",this does not mix up go/display/whatever,thanks a lot!,np,I just see that "About Ubuntu..." is still untranslated. I though that I did it, but it does not seem to be applied. It should be "ber Ubuntu..."
I forgotten to apply 2 strings in the previous upload, that's already fixed but thanks
Now I need some translations from you :-),Administrative tasks have been disabled for security reasons. Please use Menu Computer &gt; System configuration &gt; Printing,this is the new warning for the CUPS web interface,thanks!.the syst?me is broken. Can you please send me this by mail?
? is that a new string to translate ?
no, just the second menu part of the first string,all other characters worked, but not the one in "syst...me"
do you want a mail, or that's ok now ?
it still does not work. Maybe this character cannot be displayed in latin1,although it should. Wait, I just enter it by hand, `e should work
/charset utf-8
okay, I did. Can you pleas send again the word?,ah!,thanks!,morning!,hi!,I found an easy solution for ##1142,if you want I can take this bug,so you can continue your gnome 2.8 upload berserk mode :-)
yeah :),gnome_cups_spawn() in libgnomecups/gnome-cups-permission.c ,if you need the function that runs gksudo
thanks,I actually would like it more to disable this admin button entirely since cups cannot verify the root password anyway,I will see how intrusive that is,cupsd does not run in group shadow any more, so it cannot read /etc/shadow,of course, the admin can just put cupsd into shadow, the README.Debian explains that,okay, that's a point, I'll leave the button in and just fix the gksudo call,I lied a little while ago: gnome-cups-manager's become admin button does work,it does not send root's password to cupsd, but becomes root to be able to read the cups certificate,so, everything is alright :-)
ok, nice
I just uploaded a fixed gcm, works now.sounds like provide, conflict and replace, don't?,okay, provide might not actually be required,well, package names usually aren't either,no, that was crap
and the provides help for that ? Provides are not versionned afail
you still have to have an evolution1.5 package which depends on evolution,yes, they are not versioned, but the package name becomes different,so we need a transition package evolution1.5 which depends on evolution.nothing depends on it?,then the provides should not be necessary,you need for upgrades,evolution1.5 must depend on evolution.if you are too loaded with work, can I help you with some easy changes?.#1201 maybe?,okay, great.,do you need German translations for #1188? (OO.o menu entries)
thanks, but my todo list for tomorrow is ok, I'm almost update with 2.8 packaging
okay, did not want to disturb you. My todo list is already empty
you can attach them to the bug report if you want, but not sure I'll have time for translations,but I've > 30 bugs opened, so if you want to dig on some of them feel free :)
I will attach the translations. I will look into your bugs,odd, I want to dist-upgrade, and evolution1.5 and evolution-exchange are to be removed correctly, but evolution is not installed additionally,ah, I see.,Good morning! Woke up again after the gnome 2.8 battle? :-)
yeah :)
Good morning!,Hi!,Good morning!.got squeezed?,Hi!,Tsjoklate wants to know about "locked menus".plovs has a weird sound problem; is it planned to compile all sound apps to use only esd?
what weird problem ?
plovs: unfortunately rhythmbox does not seem to have an option for setting the device.plovs: esdsink is already the default on my system. Plovs, maybe this is still from an old installation?,/dev/dsp could be a modem or a tv card
no idea
on their way to get installed
ok, I should be back in ~1h,no, it's not
fabbione: 2.6.8.1 works fine for me on hoary, no difference to warty; 2.6.9 breaks sound, unfortunately.do you know a gnome counterpart of worklog/wmwork?
dunno what worklog/wmwork is
it keeps track of the time you spend on various projects during the day,i. e. what we are supposed to do now in our reports
dunno
hi Gnominator,there is no 0.5.4 yet,I see the announcements
bugger.. I'll fix that.. sorry.want me to repost?
nah, i've moderated :)
since the ubuntu ppl are doing a talk next month at LUV, how much can I give away in telling people what's up for next months talk? I'd like to basically plug the talk but I don't want to give anything away
see debian.slug.org.au, except you should probably also mention 'Canonical' (the company) and 'Ubuntu' (the distribution)
cool',cool. thought that was about what I could get away with saying anyway, but just wanted to have it confirmed,where's a good place to put howto's for installer fixups.. I tripped over a bug in the installer on the release version that you can get around with a few commands
maybe in the faq? perhaps filing a bug would be better ;)
I'm filing a bug.. but this is the release, and we can't exactly go and pop out a new iso for a single bug.. (well, I wouldn't expect so),afaik, it does that for you now.found out what the ubuntu logo font is by any chance?
will find out in uk morning
cool.. just trying to mock up a tshirt design, and it would help. *grin*
just use the eps
erm, no, this is for a catch-phrase that would go below the logo..,and I am using the eps btw. *grin*,the other side of the tshirt uses a different font, so that's not an issue,is there plans to release updates to warty in, say, 2-3 months? eg: with all the security updates.
updated isos? maybe, we've discussed (read: argued) about it before
cool.. could be useful imho, but then again, that's mho, not anyone elses,cool.. no problem,mainly want it so I can repartition/reformat my 500GB USB removable.,heh yup. btw: if a removable is ntfs, it doesn't automount.. *8-(,who wrote the pinter interface thing for gnome? it's a bit lacking, painful to use, and buggy,erm, printer even.hey ages ago I asked about what font the ubuntu logo used. did that ever get figured out?.ok, who should i ask?,heh.. cos I've got all these designs for t-shirts in my head.. and they'd look a bit trashy if they use a different font for associated text.so the logo was created by a design company?
i'm pinging again
ok then, if they can't tell us what font, the alternative is that we give them the text and they produce images of the text in that font..,but this of course might cost ubuntu money, which is not that great a thing
they will, just have to make them think it's important :)
cool... because i bought a digital camera today :-9
well, if it supports usb-storage you won't have a problem anyway.does it?
i can't say yet.. battery has to charge for 12 hours the first time :(((
congrats! I just installed the latest warty ppc daily build, and it installed X without a single question. Cool!
does it work? ;)
like a charm :-),it even picked the correct resolution,my last daily build cd set up 800x600,however, I did not look which driver it uses, have to do that tomorrow. I have to go now (Tae Kwon Do training),but even if it is the vesa driver, it is just a nice install experience
thanks :-)))
maybe that there is no 2nd/3rc button on ppc? At least this is _my_ problem,I mapped them to F11 and the command key on my sid
the new libgphoto2 package works like a charm
Ugh, dentist? My condolence!.chmod 700 /dev/teeth? Then he cannot hurt you any more?
i am not scared of the dentist or the pain
this _does_ sound scary. I don't like dentists.,good luck!
it happened to me but for another package long time ago,somewhere in the middle is dropping packets
but it always stopped at exactly the same point
yup.. just coincidence.what would happen on people upgrading from debian?
if they upgrade udev as well, they get the new behaviour automatically,that is, if they did not change the config files and rejected upgrading them,if they don't upgrade udev, they just will get the old behavior,sabdfl: if I leave my mixers below 50%, I cannot hear *anything*, not even noise,apt-cdrom add.maybe it makes sense to add the lines, but comment them out?,this will make it easier for the user to enable them, but it makes no sense to have them by default if you have no network
that's what i was thinking....
do we actually have mirrors ATM?,the user selects a region/country, so in the future we could have a mapping country -> mirror
no we don't have official mirrors, but for instance if i choose the mirror manually i want that to be respected,and the mapping is done already somehow
you want to add a custom mirror dialog to base-config?.people who are doing that can probably edit sources.list by hand, don't they?,most of the users won't care about the particular mirror.nice in general. Can you please add another comment for the deb-src?
yes.. it was next in the TODO :)
another hing. You add the restricted universe regardless of whether you install from CD-ROM?,this line is not contained in the if URI = cdrom
uh?,i am not sure i undesrtand what you mean
you add the first #deb line only if URI=cdrom, but you add the second #deb line unconditionally,ah, I understand..another thing: is it necessary to repeat main and restricted in the universe line?,users may come to the idea to enable both, I don't know whether this hurts,both = both lines
we agreed to show the entire example.
okay, that makes sense,Morning fabio!,Morning!
caching them somewhere at mount time?
Mithrandir: I thought about this, but this involves many upstream changes,Mithrandir: but I guess I cannot do without one.
you can still push the changes back to upstream ;)
yes, of course I will push the changes upstream. upstream is said to be a cooperative guy, up to now he always adopted my patches :-)
you can still try to detect the device & co and use the state as last resource,and mdz are very careful about security status,that's why i was asking for hoary ;)
me too
cef: pasta with broccoli and saugages in white cream...
thanks! But as much as I love virtual reality, there are times in life when one wants to bury it :-),enjoy!,good morning!,good to hear.why it says Denmark at the plate?
because i live in dk?
oops, I thought you were from italy?
yeah.. i am.. as thombot says.. they couldn't keep there anymore
I don't ask
ahaha nothing to hide
Ah, now it's clear :-).not so many blondes in Italy, no?
nahh here is better...
I still get a wrong default X resolution,xresprobe reports just 1280x960 (and lower), although my TFT has 1280x1024.can I debug this any further?
sorry.. i was washing the dishes..,please file a bug to xresprobe.
no problem
and provide daniels with all the logs and so on
I don't know, maybe its also a bug in my monitor
we agreed that if xresprobe doesn't detect correctly the values, is not X fault :-)
will do
on the otherside X has no way to know that xresprobe results are correct,thanks :-)
testing his IRC client?,On my sid system, the ndvidia driver was loaded automatically by hotplug. IIRC the driver package contained a sysfs patch which created a sysfs device for the nvidia card,but on warty I have to load it manually
there should be no duplicates.you forgot a | ?.for hoary?,is it normal (after your changes) that gpg still bitches about "insecure memory"
ugh, no,my latest changes remove the suid bit completely,but you need the latest kernel crack for that.uname -a?
i will check again
hmm, this should be correct
probably i installed the kernel and didn't reboot
gpg does work correctly with this kernel at my box.you leave your computer on over night?,if you did not reboot, uname -a should print an older version
i can't remember :-),it's not like i reboot on a daily base
my sound on 2.6.9 is present, but barely audible (very quiet). any idea?
did you wash your hear this mornig?
btw, it already broke on the very first 2.6.9 version, not only on yesterday's
mmm, broadband
I have broadband, but the billing is kinda wierd...
ah


ide=nodma?
Does giving that to the kernel work, or does it need to be a module paramater?,Oh, no, hang on,"PCI: Device 000:00:09.0 not available because of resource collisions"
oh god, i dont know if you can just give that to the kernel.is it trying to use acpi?


is there some way to tell pbbuttonsd (or whatever would be responsible) to set the fan to a certain minimum speed?,the fan in this thing is constantly speeding up and slowing down, and it's very distracting
no, the fan stuff on new powerbooks seems to be hardcoded into the kernel, it's very distressing,if it's using therm_adt76x or whatever it is, same problem
ping?
?
uploading a new linux-source-2.6.8.1 which produces about 3x as many binary packages.could you see that it gets the love it needs?
yeah,amd64's still building
that's promising
*shrug* it works for the most part
it doesn't strictly *suck*, and there certainly isn't a better alternative, but it has a lot of things which are awkword or borderline-broken.how is that powerpc build going?
boring the fuck out of me is how
looks like there should be a total of 6.did the kernel ever finish, or did you fall asleep?
it finished 5 minutes ago, just made it to the queue and is going into the archive now.do you need me for anything else?
thanks,nope,-updates WFM,what's the status of warty-security?  we're going to need to do some security updates soon, and we might as well put them through the -security infrastructure to test it out, if you'll be ready
tonight.oh yeah, why was I cc'ed on that?
ah, forgot to mention in the bug.  we had talked about whether it would be a good idea to add a global Bugs: override,colin and martin, as I recall.you going to file that glide thing in bugzilla for Mithrandir?.do we have a warty-amber or something?
err, nope
how should that part work?
well atm, it works more like p-u in Debian.. I didn't realise you'd want to do it amber-style
good point.how does stuff get from p-u to stable in debian?,I suppose soyuz should obsolete amber
yeah, you'd have a web/mail interface as a replacement I guess
local docs, or network docs?
either/both.. just a general, welcome to ubuntu page with pointers to getting started docs, rather than being dumped into the plain desktop
there used to be a "Start here" icon on the desktop...:-)
dude, it's there, we can't ...
what was that magic tool you mentioned which would try harder to apply patches?
wiggle,I think he once admitted to not checking the BTS before filing because it took up too much BW
yes, he has admitted that he never does,I prefer archive also
they're in different top level dirs, not much difference there
security.ubuntu.com as well?.should we have a security/universe?
I thought not, given that it's a lose/lose.  if we use it, people will assume universe is supported.   if we don't, (fewer) people will infer it's supported by the directories existing
as I recall, Mark's feeling on the subject was that we would end up serving up community-provided security updates for universe, I think.ping?,I don't think I have a copy of your new key,is bleeding at the data center, apparently


these icons better end upstream
i just nicked the netapplet ones for now,but decided not to use those anyway.what does it do for machines that don't have batteries?,let me know what you think about the battstat/wifi icons
I haven't seen them yet, are they going upstream?
if they don't suck
I haven't used updated ubuntu yet, so I haven't seen them,I want to see gnome 2.10 with HAL for gnome-vfs
well, 2.8 has support for it, but i'm not entirely confident is stable :)
I'm using it at the moment
see that image?
the images seem cool
yeah
so it's not as "insanely" cool as I'd thought
not really, gnome-vfs (and thus gnome-vfs-daemon) can be used in non-gnome apps
excellent point,gconfd does a lot of caching and deals with policy shit.how would you do multiple session caching?
i've just ordered a dell x300
I dislike Dell immensely due to my bad experiences with them, as a result I haven't looked at their product range,you are obsessed with ISDN
no, no howl
there was no response to the proposal of syncing the python2.3 package from unstable. what should we do now?.any news about the python sync?
regarding python, so far I am not convinced, but I am listening if there is a compelling case for it
will we build an amd64 kernel for i386 as well?
I had not intended to build an amd64 kernel for i386...is there any reason to, since we provide a full amd64 distribution?
does this include the firmware for isdn hardware as well=
object code.ok, will you package it?
ok, for linux-restricted as a module?
is it kernel or userland?
kernel
ok, then it goes in linux-restricted-modules,herbert is working on it now, then fabio, then daniel,so you should get linux-restricted-modules after fabio
fine, hope I can manage it ...
send email to fabio asking him to pass the packages to you after he has added the nvidia driver,if you have trouble, mail herbert.what is isdnactivecards?,isdnutils-base sounds like it should go in base.is libcapi20-3 useful on its own?,it does not seem to be depended on by either of the other packages.why does it not depend on it?
you found a bug.
what about ipppd and the other binary packages?.what is the minimum needed for ISDN networking, which should go in base?
I prepare that list offline, ipppd is needed as well.
ok
btw, do we have something faster than gnome-terminal for desktop?,yes, there should only one terminal emulator in the menu, but gnome-terminal doesn't seem to be the best choice.
I find gnome-terminal to be a nice balance of unicode support, configurability and usability
I don't argue about the usability of gnome-terminal, but it's way too slooow.,npmccallum: concerning the ISDN support, I'll continue the work tonight and tomorrow, but I'm now uncertain that we will get something useful for warty, so I would like to concentrate to get the components into universe in such a way, that they are available and usable. however, it would be nice to prepare the init scripts (currently isdnutils-basse, isdnactivecards, maybe misdn not yet available) to follow the conventions for init script
there is much to do for the Wednesday preview release; I think we should revisit this issue after then,huh?  -logfile is a valid option.do you have some other X in your PATH or something?,set -x in xprobe.sh and find the command line which is producing that error,^^^.did you run with XRESPROBE_DEBUG=yes?.you have xresprobe >= 0.4.3?,should be /tmp/xprobe.<pid>,ah, seems to be a bug with the debug setting,set both XRESPROBE_DEBUG and XPROBE_DEBUG.anything interesting in it?,this is a laptop, right? (you said geForce Go),  EGREPLINE="\(--\) NV\(.*\): Virtual size is .*x.* \(pitch .*\)"
the only line that matches is the 640x480 line.
look at the rest of the log file
night. tommorow is team meeting?
Kinnison: this would have been a nice thing to mention for desktop, oh, 2 months ago
Afternoon...
new laptop?
Yep!,no, centrino, alas
it should get mounted under /media ; 
nup, there's only cdroms under there.is that bug worthy?
do you have gnome-volume-manager running?
as user or root? root I guess,yep, there it is
gnome-volume-manager
not in the list,gnome-v gives me "gnome-vfs2",alternatively I can file a third "cannot file against gnome-volume-manager" bug... or perhaps not,bug filed.take today off?
tempting, but perhaps not."corporate teddy bear"?
what, planet.gnome is the new monster or what?
it seems that FindAsYouType is broken in most distros, currently :/
Afternoon...,Fujitsu Lifebook,spiv said "they're awesome, you realise the magic for the X config is insane?",but he thinks I'm OK because it has a normal aspect ratio,The nuttiness with finding a US vendor has caused me to lower my standards.
i was going to recommend the dell x300 to you
thanks for the thought anyway.,Next time I will be around for wider soundings :)
where was that place that james got his?
Red's Notebook World on wattle street.,They don't have an onli9ne catalogue.,It would make for excellent pre-release artwork.,Someone would do an icon theme, no worries.
i use screen in g-t,there is known weirdness between screen and vte, but i haven't seen that
I've been getting it consistently for about a year.,Within 15 minutes of spiv letting me use his laptop  it started happening to him too...
irssi also has this talented bug that makes the whole screen go blue
You can look it up on swift's site can't you?
no,ideally, no
bug worthy?


very much so,i love it :),haven't got this buzz with gnome for ages ;)
When the buzz wears off Ubuntu releases, what are you going to do for your next fix?,Mary's getting "There was a problem installing the selected software"
eeek!,man, good catch.does it work from universe?
Thanks :).Hmm, which page would be appropriate?
probably DesktopSeed,http://www.gnome.org/~jdub/random/offlineimap_4.0.4_all.deb
Hmm, reading a bit, the instructions under the "PROPOSED" heading of WartyWarthog/DesktopSeed suggest I should do something slightly different..Does that just mean the text there is out of date?
kind of,we should be maintaining those on the hoary pages now
Well, detaching and reattaching screen wfm.,hello
(naw, just u-a)
Really?  Ok :),The glsnake labels should be turned off by default, if it's not alrady...
:-)
I didn't make, or add, that model :P,I bet you'd say that even if you were a school teacher ;)
:-).where are you atm?.did you chase-dead-skase?
I thought about it :)
has the working-while-travelling aspect of it turned out well?
It's a bit exhausting when you're moving around a lot.  We changed cities every four days or so in the US, so that was rough.,Heh, yeah, it dragged out for longer than expected :),I don't have BAT*, I have C138 and C139...
got present voltage values?
$ grep -h voltage /proc/acpi/battery/C13*/state
ta


I just pulled it into warty bugzilla to ask about that
I would still like it best to have a strict root/user separation, but maybe I'm just too conservative
it is a usability problem for the user to remember two passwords, especially when one of them is almost never used
just because the people are misled by windows, we still should teach them about different roles about using a computer, don't?,agreed about the remembering of the root password. hmmm..what about setting up the same password for root by default?,not for people used to Unix already
yeah, we discussed that and it was as thom says,people used to unix will immediately "sudo passwd root"
okay, if this was already discussed to death, I will shut up.,BTW, many friends of mine don't know what 'sudo' is (sudo passwd root), but they are used to different computer usage roles.
the last screen of the installer should explain how to set the root password
and how to disable universal user admin rights
right
but still this should be explained somewhere.Kamion: right now, gksu asks for a root password, which I don't have. I assume this will get fixed?,good news! sid's and warty's hotplug packages already support per-package usb usermaps, so I can modify libgphoto to automatically allow camera access to users
great!
it is a small change, no code modification necessary.sorry, I think that did not apply to gphoto, did it?
I was talking about the font stuff.did you see my mail to the list about pmount/gvm?  how are we going to handle unmounting?
I'm at the phone, will return later,I'm back, sorry, was a long talk.,I read it.,To me it seems that the most consistent and intuitive way of umounting the device is to close the nautilus window,but the problem is what to do if there is still a process using the device
fuser -k? :-)
isn't there a context menu entry of "ejecting" the device?,the safest method is still to do the ejecting manually,I don't know anything about the gnome stuff, so I cannot say how easy it is
this is a USB flash reader; the hardware doesn't actually have an 'eject' concept
I would still prefer either a context menu (umount, eject, release, whatever) or a small icon,Windows calls it "safe remove" IIRC.we still need a new group for allowing local user access to removeable devices. I'd favor a single group for USB sticks, cameras and FireWire devices, do you think we should split that into several groups?
I think a single group is better
any idea how to smoothly handle upgrades to the 'plugdev'-restricted mount/camera/whatever system?
specifically?
we should not just put every existing user with uid > 1000 into that group
oh, I don't think we need to worry too much about that, just do it in base-config,we can send an email to the sounder list about it
agreed for the sounders, but what about upgrades from woody?.I thought woody upgrades should be supported?
they are, but we do not expect to make such intrusive changes to their working configuration,this is not something which is required for a successful upgrade
agreed, but we have to explain that somewhere,I think somebody would kill me if I added a high-priority debconf note.so I just do the mods and we put a stanza about this into the release notes?
sure,we can't provide exactly the same experience on upgrades, since we won't risk intrusive changes to the user's configuration
okay, will do. BTW, do you agree to my propsed todo list?
I need to review it
can you reply to the mail please? I'm going to bed now.
but in a nutshell, you need to finish the implementation of the removable device support as soon as possible so that you can focus on bugfixing for the release
yeah, I will work that out with npmccallum 
I will respond to the mail when I have a chance
thanks! good night!.this silly postgresql log permission thingy... will you accept another sid sync (with some other small changes) or shall I prepare an -ubuntu1 package?
if the other changes are small and safe, we can sync,ok, will do
still awake?
yes
In the meantime I wrote a mail on sounders about the sudo stuff.,I looked at your patches, looks good..but why do you think snprintf is better than strncat?.printf is quite expensive and has a lot more code than strncat, doesn't it?
snprintf operates in terms of the available storage,while strncat requires that you calculate it
okay; I already incorporated the fixes; I will also restrict it to the plugdev group in today's upload,if we leave mount/umount unrestricted this does not really fulfill the SecurityPolicy because all users still can mount CD-ROMS (with are in fstab),s/with/which/
can't we stop adding CD-ROMs to fstab if we use pmount?
of course we can; yesterday's upload added the CD-ROM file systems,but before we actually do this, unmounting in Nautilus should work.if you install pmount on a system without the plugdev group, what do you think should be done?.installation fails, unrestricted pmount, create group plugdev?
I need to go to sleep; let's talk about it in the morning
good night!.I fixed jackd/jackstart. Want to take a look at the interdiff before I upload?,http://www.no-name-yet.com/patches/jack-audio-connection-kit.fix-capabilities.diff
looks good to me
regarding pmount, I lied this morning: it is not currently possible to pmount CD-ROMs since they are usually IDE devices which we don't consider removeable
ah
one thing that could help comes with kernel 2.6.8
have you tested the 2.6.8 kernel yet?
there are now files /sys/block/whatever/removable :-).not the ubuntu one; is there already a ppc build?,I currently run upstream.we could extend the policy of pmount: if removable exists and contains 1, we could allow the pmount. What do you think?
no, the powerpc build is not available yet
but eventually we will ship 2.6.8 with warty, will we?,the problem is that for finding this removable file, a lot of new code had to go into pmount since then it needs to recursively scan the whole /sys/block hierarchy,I'm almost apt to say 'let CD-ROM stay in fstab and handle this in Hoary'...
that sounds like a reasonable approach
I agree. Especially because Kamion said that removing CD-ROMs from fstab is not as trivial as it sounds
yes, he did,http://rince.africaninspace.com/mailman/listinfo/warty-changes
i'm getting the digests, but cannot remember seeing it,thanks
people still use digest mail? :-)
Geez! I even wrote a mail about it and forgot it myself.
npmccallum: works perfectly for me after adding myself to the plugdev group
beep - next question,Nautilus must be modified not to look in fstab, but in /etc/mtab,yes,that's why pmount has to do its own checks, we cannot trust hal since users can overwrite all properties
right, but gvm listens directly to hal
I know, but even if hal tries to fool gvm, gvm cannot mount invalid devices
yes, it can't fool pmount, but gvm itself runs as a user, and so one user could forge information in hal which could be acted upon by another user automatically,I'm not sure what other actions might be taken by gvm apart from calling pmount
that's the problem. hal must not be trusted,we should really only regard the hal information as hints.regarding #996 (wow, does bug #1000 get a price?): what do you mean by "correct permissions on the device"?.are the permissions of the root mountpoint wrong?
no, the permissions on the block device,they come up as root/disk 660
hmm. Why should users write directly to the device?.shall they be able to create partitions?,BTW, I just got a reply from hald upstream. He eventually adopted my changes :-)
hal should be able to poll it to notice when media is inserted,as it does for cdrom and floppy
ah! That is, the device needs to be in a group that hald also runs in, right?
correct
so pmount could change the group to plugdev?,okay, if that helps, I can do that. I cannot test it, though,I have to upload a new version anyway to fix that mount point "permission denied" problem
no, that would not fix the problem,the devices are only readable by group disk
oh?
that needs to be fixed to be a different group, and then hal can be added to that group,I thought plugdev made sense, but it doesn't much matter. cdrom is just as good, though the name is misleading
but if pmount changes the group to plugdev and hald additionally runs in plugdev?
pmount will never be called unless hal can read the device
Argh. So this actually means that hald has to run in group disk? I would not like that because it means that hald could actually write to all disks.if we change the devices to group plugdev, this would be the job of udev, right?.so shall I try to modify udev to assign plugdev group to usb and firewire devices?,IDE and fixed SCSI devices should stay in disk, of course
can udev tell the difference?,really, all removable scsi devices should be owned by cdrom or similar,yes, they don't show up as scsi removable
do you actually know a program that relies on the fact that devices are writeable by group disk?
they show up as scsi fixed disks (sd),no, I don't
maybe it is enough to just chmod the devices to 640,then hald could run in group disk, could do media detection and even filesystem detection,I'll think over it and try that out. I report back on Monday.
I would email Kamion about it
I'll do
jdub: thanks,we definitely need to limit hal's access so that it can neither read nor write system disks
yes, that would be fine. If we can modify udev to tell apart removable from fixed devices, this is no problem,Good morning!
my card reader still comes up as root:disk 0660.still here?
I am.,sorry, xchat makes no noise on ppc
it's looking quite good with the current hal and udev!
and my workstation is broken,thanks!
I connect my card reader, and the devices are group plugdev
yes, 2.6.8 is a requirement for udev to detect removeable devices.what is strange?
the two windows
I also encountered this. Immediately after bootup, I see /, /home and the sda1 window
after closing the windows, unmountind, and reinserting, I get only one window
funnily enough it works correctly all subsequent times,exactly.,I think this should be a gvm issue
yes, it sounds that way
hmm. but the extra windows also appear when the mount was successful.
please file a bug about it, assigned to npmccallum and CCing me
I'll try to reproduce this exactly tomorrow
or if you have time to look into it yourself, that is of course fine too :-)
I'll do. Good to hear that your card reader works, though, so I can close that bug,I will do. My bug count came pretty close to zero today and I think it is not the best time to work on new projects,I will finish for today, I still need some workout after 11 hours of hacking...,if 2.6.8.1 will be the default kernel, everything should work fine
another thing that is strange,when I double-click an item which is on the card
hmm. That works for my USB stick.
vfat filesystem?
does it only happen with the "extra" volumes of your card reader?,yes
"extra"?
extra in the sense that they are hotpluggable in the hotpluggable device.can you access the files manually on the shell?,if not, it might be a root mount point permission issue.what are the mount point permissions?
it works fine if I launch eog from the command line
hmm.,Ah, I remember.where did you get that log message from?,I believe I can reproduce it
~/.xsession-errors
can you open the files with right-click and choose an app manually? This works for me,I can reproduce it!
yes, that works
odd, this worked before,could be tomorrow's job for me,but if you suppress the exec, you will not be able to enter directories any more
with vfat at least, you can set them separately
oh? I did not know
dmask and fmask, instead of umask
hmm, this is getting tricky. We don't want to limit execution for other file systems, I suppose,this sounds saner.
I think those options only apply to fat and possibly fat-like filesystems
there actually may be files on a vfat that the user wants to execute
hmm, true
If it works correctly for other file systems, I will implement that,let's regard it as a trojan horse protection feature :-).can we put a file invocation into nautilus?
what about binfmt_misc? :-).what about unmounting?
what do you mean?
how will these automatically mounted devices be unmounted?  is that still an open question?
trying the exec is not the worst option, I think,you open the computer window and umount it by right-clicking on it and choose "unmount",it would be nice if it were umountedd automatically when closing the window, but other processes might still access it,however, we could try and pop up a warning if unmounting did not work.can you please cc me on the bug report?
already done
I don't think that it is too hard to attempt umount when closing the device window
should we mount with the sync option to minimize the damage when they don't unmount?
we already do,however, if they don't umount and plug it in again, the "old" device is still mounted. This might break something,with sync it's annoyingly slow, but that's better than waiting on umount indefinitively
if they unplug and replug, it will show up as a different device
when users see that copying lasts long, they will understand,oh, right,so it actually shouldn't hurt too much on VFAT filesystems
no; it should be the same as Windows with a floppy
nevertheless, a slightly more obvious umounting would be better,especially since you cannot just take out a CD-ROM if it's mounted :-),okay, you can, but...
for FAT filesystems, it should be possible to attempt to unmount _after_ the user disconnects the device,this should work fine on a FAT filesystem which was mounted with sync
so gvm should intercept that and just umount it if hal reports the umount
though, on some other type of filesystem, it will probably spew errors and such, but it is already too late to do anything useful
that's why we should do that consistently,we need to unmount cd-roms anyway,18:00 at my clock, any laudatio from you for the start? :-)
that :-)
agreed; who summarizes?
will you summarize the issues for the mailing list and start the discussion there?
Oh, its running, I just did not observe the latest boot,powerpc images were only available from this mornign on
what kind of userspace support do they need?
iwconfig does not work with it, you need wlanctl-ng
is the version in universe sufficient?,I had a problem on my desktop going from 2.6.7 to 2.6.8
I don't think that is a kernel bug, more a firmware bug
the idea was for the desktop trash icon to disappear
what's still missing, security-wise?,ah; I will check that
ok, you will take responsibility for this?
I will
we also need to review Debian DSAs independently,and to the extent possible, CVEs
I will dig though the bugtraq archives
this seems like a huge project; there are many sources of this information and it is difficult to cross-reference against the packages included in Warty
I welcome other people to help me :-)
let's talk after the meeting about how to go about it
agreed,plugdev membership comes to my mind
yes, that is part of the larger question about providing the ubuntu desktop experience on upgrade,well, they also won't have any of that installed :-),linux-non-free-modules (kernel stuff).will you take care of tg3?
I cannot test it currently,if it works at 100mbps, it's probably okay, I think
I think the one he was talking about was pwcx,pwc is in the kernel, and free
you can get there from everywhere
we should disable the authentication and show a placeholder page, ideally
you cannot disable the authentication,but I can change the web pages not to refer to /admin any more
I thought the problem was that users were accustomed to going to http://localhost:6031/admin or whatever
we cannot do anything about that,we need this interface because gnome-cups-manager uses the CGI as well,(anything apart from rewriting half of cups),okay, I will change the error page and remove the admin links. 
but gnome-cups-manager does not care what text is displayed on the page, does it?
I think so
ok, that sounds reasonable,if the user at least gets a reasonable error when their password is rejected, that is enough for Warty.translations of what?
translations of programs,gksudo still talks english to me,so does gnome-cups-admin
we cannot afford to spend your time on it right now; we can maybe revisit it after preview
okay, so we defer that until we have Rosetta?
please file bugs.still here?,morning
but you are right, cardmgr should not care about creating devices (but it says so in the log),a lot of failed mknod messages.what do you think about the following pmount policy change: "device is removable" -> "device is removable || device node is writable by the user"?
if cardmgr tries to create devices, we should just disable that
since udev assigns the plugdev group to removable nodes, the user can write the device anyway,agreed, I will look at cardmgr
I am not so sure about that policy change
but if the user has full write rights on the device anyway it should not be too critical to allow him to mount it, dont?
I am not so sure
okay, I will postpone that,we just should think over that. But before I'll deal with cardmgr,right. OTOH we allow it on other removeable devices, too...,udev will only put removable devices in plugdev,so pmount should check that it is an IDE/SCSI volume,(which would be a good idea anyway),I actually thought of looking into sysfs,I will think over it. I report back this evening. Before I will fix cardmgr and start to go over the security review.BTW, I have to change pumount to support lazy unmount. Do you see any problem with this?,we need the support to better handle the case if the user just rips off his devices,thom will modify hal to lazily umount removed (but still mounted) devices,he wants to call pumount -l for that
what needs to change in order to support it?,yes, I agree, we need to try to handle that case as well as possible
i have to add an option '-l', pass it to umount,and I have to replace the check "device node exists" by "device node exists or -l is given",because if the user removes the device, /dev/sdxx will not be there any more for unmounting
in that case, you may as well just remove the check for whether the device node exists
but we still have the check that the device node must be present in mtab,so I guess that's okay,I will leave it in pmount and throw it out of pumount, I guess,Okay, I can throw it out completely, but it does not hurt; maybe it saves from erroneous calls (not from malicious ones)
ok, if it protects against some error cases
no, we don't.,if a device is mounted and the user mounted it, he should be able to umount it even if the node disappeared,that's reasonable, I think
I just noticed somethin which does not look right
argh!,right, this was correct before I checked with realpath.,thanks!,good night!,Good morning!.ahm - do you have some time for another pmount discussion?
yes
I tried to add the -l option for lazy unmounting, but there's a problem:,if the device node is not present any more, I cannot really check directly whether the device node belongs to an USB/FireWire device,so currently I dropped the device_removable() check from pumount and replaced it by a check if the mounted uid == getuid()
you could check that the device is mounted under /media
this adds the constraint that only the user who mounted a device can unmount it (this should be actually a good thing),this is already done
or worse, create a pmtab so you know what was mounted by pmount and what wasn't
we already discussed the pmtab thingy, but it has its flaws, too,the current solution should not be worse because:,pmount only mounts removable devices (USB/FireWire), and the devices have uid=getuid(),pumount only umounts uid=getuid() devices, so transitively it only unmounts removable devices, too,this is not perfect, but from my POV its almost equivalent,and we have to check for uid==getuid() anyway (at least we should)
it sounds like it is probably close enough
the pmtab has an exploit:
you could add a dummy flag to the mount
if that's possible...,having an extra table is not a good solution, an user might pmount /dev/sda, rip it off, then the admin comes and hotplugs an /dev/sda SCSI device (fixed) to /usr,the user should not be able to umount /dev/sda then,I did not upload the current version yet, its on https://chinstrap.warthogs.hbd.com/~pitti/pmount/,I wanted to discuss it first,if the pmount mount flag does not hurt, I can add this, too,but writing an extra pmtab has too many risks of doing sth wrong, I think
I agree; I don't recommend a pmtab,if you want to mail me the diff from the previous version, I'll look over it
I'll do,http://www.piware.de/pmount-0.0.9.diff,it's quite large, but more than 50% is documentation change,can you please mail me if you took a look at the pmount changes? I would sort this out tomorrow, I still have an hour of RL things to do before I go to sleep
I'll take a look; next time, please email the diff, that way it automatically goes on my todo list
I can still mail it if you want
hmm.which uid does it use when doing the uid check for unmount?
that's why we don't allow hal to pumount,first, because of the user, second because hal should stay policy free
but hal already does this, with umount rather than pumount.how do we do lazy unmounts if not with hal?
thom and I decided that it would be the best if hald just send a message to gnome-vfs2 (gvm) and gvm does it
what happens if the user logs out of GNOME?
then it is not umounted, I guess,this is the same: a device is not mounted if the user is not logged in,after all, it's just a helper, not a final solution,maybe gvm should unmount all pmounted devices on logout
maybe,I don't see any problems with the patch,did you see the sounder report where pmounting ext3 doesn't work? (due to uid= option),fixing that will probably require some adjustments to this  new policy as well
no, I still have to catch up my mail,I was busy with the security review until now
so that bug can be closed now, yes?
I think so,I will close it now,I think we should attempt the mount with option -s to fix that ext3 problem,I will reformat my USB stick and try that
oh, I did not know about that option. that sounds good
Will try that and put that into the 0.0.9 package before upload.so the mods are fine with you?,s/with/for/
from what I saw, yes. I do not have time for a line-by-line audit
of course not, I just want the new policy to be blessed by you :-),the general idea of umounting with checking the uid=,I discussed that with Mithrandir, fabbione, andthom, they agreed as well,okay, then I'll upload this,thanks for reviewing.here?
here
already sorted out (#1166), thanks
how is the security review going?
doko finished (most of?) DSA 2003, sivan wanted to finish 2002 yesterday,so far I did not yet hear about the status of 2004 (lamont wanted to do this)
I don't see any bugs remaining in bugzilla; are there no pending issues from the review?
there are some; currently they are in the wiki since I wanted to deal with them today
please send him an email ping, CC me
but I can file bugs anyway,I will mail him or ask doko to do 2004 as well
ok.do you think you can find patches to take care of #1177 and #1179?,there is a patch filed in GNOME bugzilla, linked from the bug
I will do this today
I will assign the bugs to you; if you do not have time today, pass them on to someone else working on the security review
yes please; then I see them on my start page :-)
if you do not want to file bugs in bugzilla for the fixes you will do yourself, that is OK, but remember that I will not be able to take that workload into account when assigning you more work :-)
there is the ominous wget bug ( #261755) I'm not sure about,and there are a bunch of bugs I'm not sure whether they need updates, so I hesitated to file bugs,they need a closer examination,But I can handle the imlib bugs
better to file bugs if you are unsure; then I and others will see them and can comment
okay,I wanted to start sorting this out now anyway, I'm done with my other tasks,I knew this imlib bug - I recently fixed qt3 which had the same error. Nice to know where upstreams copy from each other :-),okay, they did not copy 'literally'
if you have bugs which correspond to Debian bugs, send me the bug numbers and I can import them into bugzilla using debzilla
good night
doing a quick test of your snmp changes, and then I'l OK it for upload
thanks.BTW, why does it hurt to sync gtksee to universe?,ah, great! gpg finally works without suid; this did not work with upstream 2.6.8.1...
right, but Herbert integrated the patch as requested
shall I prepare an interdiff for you and elmo to review?
I think it should be fine to just revert --with-capabilities (and the build-dep)
yes, I don't want intrusive changes,another thing: my jackd modifications do not really have the desired effect,jackd has a weird architecture that wants to give capabilities to _client_ threads (insane, but true),so I would like to upload a package with --with-caopabilities disabled and without any suid at all.possible?
sounds great
it's basically the same as with gnupg: just rebuild without the configure flag
but jackd wants setpriority(), not mlock(), doesn't it?
it wants both. SYS_NICE and IPC_LOCK,it wants to lock the memory of the sound buffers, for not allowing it to swap,but it also wants to start a new thread in the client player program with these capabilities (ugh),I discussed this a while with the Debian maintainer,yes, I don't want to give it to _arbitrary_ user processes
so capabilities are not inherited by threads in Linux?
the key is that CAP_SETPCAP is required to give these capabilities to player (client) processes, not just to new jackd instances,within one process, all threads of course have the same caps
oh!
I really mean that jackd gives CAP_* to processes like xmms, rhythmbox e.g.,not just to other jackd subthreads,I also thought this at first,that's why the current solution does not work and I want to disable this completely,most modern computers should have enough RAM to play well also without realtime caps,and according to the debian maintainer, professional sound engineers don't care about the security stuff anyway and will happily install patched kernels :-/
they should just run all their applications as root :-)
gnupg: I would like not to touch the code (the new capability code could stay in), just remove the configure option and the suid flag. Is that okay for you?
that is fine with me
interdiff for gpg: http://www.piware.de/gpg-nosuid.diff,it's trivial, but for the protocol...
looks fine
I don't know, it does not use debhelper and dh_fixperms,ugh, it FTBFSses,obiously my patch did not #ifdef #endif one of the declarations,it wasn't even my code that failed. I updated the patch in the above URL, now it builds and works correctly.shall I upload?
yes
done. Now http://www.piware.de/jack-nosuid.diff ;-)
it is a bit strange for the binary to be 0754
it was intended to restrict execution to audio members,but of course this could now be changed,I changed it to root:root 755,interdiff is updated,just tell me when I shall upload
go ahead
done,then I will deal with the mysql security thingy now.this might last a bit, if you went already to bed when I'm finished, can jdub approve the thing or do you want to do this this evening^w^wnext morning?
I do not want to be a bottleneck.you intend to work on fixing security bugs today, yes?
yes, same procedure as yesterday (and day before... :-) ),I hope to see the results of DSA 2004 today,lamont came pretty far, but did not finish yet,and sivan's 2002 results still had two todo items
for purposes of the preview release, we will limit ourselves to urgent fixes only
I agree; the handful of "to be examined closer" items in the wiki aren't showstoppers,I discussed with the Debian maintainers about them, some vulnerabilities are still present,e. g. quagga has broken ACL handling, but only few of our users will probably use it :-),up to now its the most serious item on my list.if you have more important tasks for me?
could you look at #1142?
with #1187, I will just take Marco's patch from sid (review it of course),#1178,but this bug does not even apply to us, just on 0.031-1,we have 0.026,grr, wrong bug. sorry.,Good morning!,security review is finished, all urgent packages are up
great, thanks
any urgend tasks left?,apart from #1217 (which I wasted 2 hours on without success) I ran out of bugs
have you tested today's daily?
not today's, no,if you think it's a good idea to test the historic 20040914 build, we can do that
#1076,is gone for the day
I just finished test-installing the latest iso, but now its 3:30 and I'm too tired to hack on,I'm afraid I cannot fix these burning problems until the release tomorrow
I know; I set it to major to indicate that it's RC for final but not for preview
I know, I just wanted to report
how did your test go?
I installed with network, the normal debs were activated automatically (I think), but security is commented out,all in all, pretty good install, X, sound, stuff works
see you tomorrow :-)
see you! I try to get up before the CD build deadline
1203 is taken care of,absolute final CD build will be at approximately 1400
but fstab user devices are happily mounted automatically, too
oh? hmm
yes, I tried to burn a CD yesterday (IDE in fstab), did not work,hal does not care if a device is in fstab
it is a shame; we have two nice features which do not play together
I agree. I'm currently working on an updated pmount.what do you think about the strategy I described in #1234?
let's look at it tomorrow :-).can you test the current daily?
okay. I think you severely need some sleep,I can do
how did your test go?
rsync is at 68%,I can get no more than 60 kB/s.still here?
yes
the one from the latest iso
if by 'dealt with' you mean 'ignored for purposes of the preview', yes :-)
I tried installation without archive copier,base-config cannot find a cd and the cd was locked,I had to manually call eject, put it back in, then it worked,it steals 15 minutes of d-i time, wastes space on hd, slows down my hd (because the head has to go back and forth),unpacking them straight from CD-ROM should be considerably faster (wrt overall install time),and indeed it is,it takes about 15 minutes just to copy the bloody packages to my hd,on my Duron 1.3, 256 RAM, 40x CD-ROM, total install lasts about 35 minutes
noooo,XRESPROBE_DEBUG=yes
thanks, will try,fabbione: does not tell much more; says ddc: yes, and prints out everything twice
and leaves behind a directory in /tmp,with logfiles
cannot find one
which X driver?,/tmp/xprobe.*
nope
you are certain you have the current version?
0.4.6
I have never succeeded it getting it to not rm -rf, but I thought it was fixed now,/usr/share/xresprobe/xprobe.sh nv
that helped
you have the logs now?
yes, I have
send them to daniels
this is a desktop, yes,Hi! Can you please approve #1276? Or do you want to put gnutls11 in Supported in the next time? Then I can build lynx against gnutls11 right away.can we remove gnutls7 from supported now?
it should be removed automatically the next time elmo diffs it
ah, thanks
the php4 package does not uspport apache2
but libapache2-mod-php4 exists,I had a similar problem with a packaged web application of mine,I just could not get the dependencies right
the solution is to require apache2 :-)


:-)
how to debug apache2, if each newly created child process immediatly segfaults?
summoning thom? ;)
how much will rsync save for the iso transfer assuming you already have yesterday's iso?
quite a lot
X-testing: you mean the guidelines from "Second call for X testers"?
yes
for the first test: is "(EE) No input driver matching `synaptic' expected"?
yes. but it should not be a fatal error
hmm, it is fatal.
it can't be fatal,because you have psmouse and mousedev loaded
starting X shows me a blinking screen, somewhat looking ascii-ish, screen resolution 640x480, console messages like AUDIT ... X: client 20 rejected from local host
ok.. give me 2 minutes and we will go step by step on it,ok... let's start,apt-get --purge remove xserver-xfree86,be sure there is no /etc/X11/XF86Config-4,apt-get install xresprobe laptop-detect mdetect discover1
done
ok,ok. first open a bug on xresprobe becuase it returns crap
no question
ok... the problem is xresprobe returning crap,and X can't really validate xresprobe output,at this point...,you need to send daniles some log stuff.. he added some debugging stuff in the environment, but i am not sure what yet...,hadn't the time to catch up during the weekend
X error message when called from /usr/share/xresprobe/xprobe.sh: Unrecognized option: -logfile
add everything up to the report for daniels.?
ok I now get id: res: 640x480 freq:,that was a question, I don't have email either.
kamion: how do I get the desktop stuff want-to-be-installed, without using base-config?,hmm, yeah, that doesn't seem to set them to 'install' when you have an uninstallable.. meh,that would require me to be able to run aptitude without running screaming from the room ;-),but ok,okay, getting very bored with the lack of tty tickets,--\ Tasks                                                                                                                                               ,  --\ Unrecognized tasks                                                                                                                                ,    --- ubuntu-desktop    ,"Unrecognized"? 
it's a breakaway task which we have no diplomatic relations with at this stage,yeah
process mails?
about packages from ftp to the archive?
no, don't think so
just bounced it,'Package source to archive walkthrough + timing',;),ping
I thought we'd disabled firewire ethernet?
er, yah,cheers,'night dude,yeah, the hoff is my #1 love; dnb is just a secondary and prog trance a tertiary concern
have you seen Dodgeball, yet?
... no ...
is 1920x1440 meant to be n-1 ?
yeah,(the list is generated from ddcprobe | egrep '^c*timing' as its base),... unless you have an lcd, in which case 1920x1440 is n.because they wrote the ddc code on boxing day?,monitors like that are the reason we use n-1 :P.what sort of monitor is it, out of interest?
mitsubishi
heh!.21", i presume?,yeah, beacuse discover is a bag of arse,you can not have it if you really want to tell x what sort of video card you have :P,yah,... it's doing n-1,no
sure, only kidding
i need to implement proper option parsing in xresprobe (there's another feature stalled on that also) in order to do that,in the meantime, take pingudance.mp3 as your hold music
dude, you just tangoed my monitor
NO I DIDN'T!,(what happened? i assume 'tangoed' is some form of slang for 'completely rooted')
?
!
xfree86 has a bogus b-d on libglide3-dev for amd64


err, are my computer and wastebasket icons meant to be bits of paper?,21727 ?        S      0:01 /usr/lib/control-center/gnome-settings-daemon --oaf-activate-iid=OAFIID:GNOME_SettingsDaemon --oaf-ior-fd=22,+ installed
how did X behaved?
fine, no questions, and it's working
cool,uh? ok you will explain me in a few minteus.. i need to eeat something.what is the problem with the mouse 2nd/3rd button mapping?
it worked - if you want me to bitch, just break it ;-)
no way....
mono, the .NET on linux stuff
i know.. just kidding :-).is there any reason for that?,do you have any eta for restricted and security? without the changes in the archive we cannot change base-config
as soon as I can
danke.what happens if we do a foobar upload to test?
might as well wait until there's something to actually upload to there
we can start with NVIDIA crap :-).can we add security to base-config?
yeah
ok thanks.can you confirm: LINE="http://security.no-name-yet.com/no-name-yet $DIST-security $COMPONENTS" ?
err, we don't have a security alias yet
that's what i was asking before,if i could add security as we discussed...
blah, I just forgot about  the security.nny.com bit - it does exist on ftp.nny.com
ok,personally i would like to see security.nny.com,but it's just a psycological factor or reading "security" somewhere in my sources.list,tho it means absolutely nothing,ok. and it will save me time unfuzzying all the translations again :),i can wait... i need to test several other things in the meanwhile,not all of it,apt-get --purge remove xserver-common xserver-xfree86,we need your brain in one piece,not cooked by monitor radiation,:-).is warty-updates like stable-proposed-updates ?
yeah, it definitely shouldn't be on by default
yup.. i just wanted to be sure
what's with apache?
nothing wrong.. it's the same as sid, i just upload it myself, without bitching you for a sync
mm, I thought the policy was that we should sync where possible...
they are exactly the same package.,only s/unstable/warty to make katie happy
yes, so what?  we could just do uploads for everything and not sync anything
ok, i didn't do it with bad intention. it was just to avoid extra work for you.,mdz did it this morning iirc.did i tell you that security dns was updated?
yeah, I saw you say so
ping.X ubuntu17 isn't in the archive yet.. do we know if it is a FTBFS or something else?
yeah, evolution-webcal and evolution-exchange are busticated
Is there a workaround?
drop out of base-config and run 'aptitude -y install ~tubuntu-desktop'
Ok, thanks.
go to the task?
Ok, looks like that's working so far.,Although it didn't look like evolution was installed yet when she saw that problem -- it was after installing mdetect & friends.
haha our elections here have degenerated into making up stuff about the other party and ridiculous personal attacks
and that's new how?
perhaps I'm looking at history through rose tinted glasses :/


I just read (and replied to) your install report. Are alt and apple swapped on the console? This occurrs on my iBook, don't know about powerbooks
seems to be, yes
so this occurs both on a German ibook and an english Powerbook -> on all mac notebooks probably,I write a bug report
cool
there?.do you have any idea why the download of manpages-dev from auckland always stucks at 313 kB (32%)?
no?  works for me...
that's odd. I tried it six times now.,the package from debian works, though, so it's not a big problem. Thanks!.BTW, do you have any reservations regarding sync'ing postgresql?
not particularly?  if you mean why hasn't it been done yet, I can only sync stuff once it reaches a public mirror
packages.d.o has 7.4.5-3 in sid
yes, as of today? it hit ftp.uk.debian.org at about 2am my time.  sorry, I didn't get up to sync it then and there :P
sorry, I did not want to urge. I uploaded yesterday, that's why I thought that there was a problem with it.,thanks for syncing! I'll try to be less impatient next time.


hmm, sugarplum is in universe
well, yes,i believe so.did wireless tools get synced recently?
not that I recal, 1107 | wireless-tools | 26+27pre22-1 |        122 | 6427 | 2004-06-09 00:00:00 |       2
yeah,i'll take a look now
cool, thanks
uploaded, built for me on amd64
neato thanks, pushing through now
is X depwaiting on both glide2-dev and glide3-dev?
just 3, it's building now
can i close the ftbfs on glide? (ie, are you happy that it works right?)
yeah


ooh, is it pirate day?,aarrr!,avast!
not quite yet, sadly,no
I can understand that, it probably fits their business model
what, so he can get great legs?
the other special K
a man is not a cam^Whorse,yes, hence the man's not a horse thing (complete with frenzal rhomb reference)
I didn't get it
ketamine -> horse tranquiliser, unless i'm much mistaken,(and one of frenzal's albums is called a man's not a camel)
among other things, yeah
x40? powerbook?
I was looking at the X31
then, er, half of canonical are second-class citizens
lots of things are lacking due to supportability problems
you just made my day :)
stephanie's is called pinga
have you heard elmo's favourite song?
totem is in universe?
totem-gstreamer is in main?
that's why I had totem installed instead of totem-gstreamer.  It actually plays my DVD's...like lanching the waiting app before creating the device files?
exactly :)
totem is in universe?,ah, probably,this feels like a freshly installed system, kinda. :(.how do I set the default font for xterm?
on the command line
btw, thanks for help with fixing my screwup
i did nothing...
you were a wealth of information when I was being frustrated.,nvidia-kernel?  puke
that's what debian does..
even if mdz didn't kill you, I would....
probably the easiest is to just compile locally the module and make a deb out of it
megabits, or bytes?,you working on X again??? :-)
hehehe no,it's the damn nvidia driver
you cannot use both Debian and Ubuntu repositories in sources.list,in the worst way,no, it has CONFIG_USB_HID=m
ah
eek
Hey, your wiki link in the Hoary kickoff mail doesnt seem to exist,ah, its HoaryKickoffMeeting,sending correction to list
is there any way to set up ubuntu over an existing sid installation?
I've used the ubuntu apt sources over an existing sid install with no problems. I would assume however, that the devs don't care for bug reports that end up as a result however
Yeah, I could see that
I've "upgraded" to ubuntu packages from existing sid and experimental packages on a box before.,yeah, that's the amd64 iso you want.
Hmm, curious
yeah, totally odd, I wouldn't expect that to totally freeze a machine.
I have been having a lot of trouble with my centrino laptop - power management does not like the ipw2200 at _all_ - will breezy (despite the disclaimer of the topic ;-)) potentially fix some of those?
sometimes you have to put ipw2200 in the list in the acpi file to restart it on wake up.
are you talking about the MODULES list in /etc/defaults/acpi-support ?,been there, done that ;),the driver is buggy as shit,that is what's up with that ;).testing hoary or breezy?
don't just go upgrading to breezy just for that. It's pretty broken for lots of people.
I don't read the list (got plenty of email as it is) but if there is a call for breezy testing I will give it a shot,"fix stuff" is a pretty broad category, but I'm a 5+ years debian user, and a python programmer, I can usually figure stuff out if it's figure-outable (i.e. kernel bugs are off limits to me)
if you know dpkg well enough to do the occasional overwrite, then breezy should be fine for you. Unless X is broken again.
doesn't sound any worse than sid :),and I ran _that_ for about 3 years
us.archive.ubuntu.com has been doing that for me for 2 days now
other hosts more forgiving?


decalage?,the removal of the timezone question was deliberate at Mark's request,https://bugzilla.no-name-yet.com/show_bug.cgi?id=415
so how do we determine TZ then?
sorry, imprecise; I mean the one that asks whether your BIOS clock is on UTC,to UTC,I'm uploading debian-installer_20040801ubuntu5 now, which *should* build on amd64; let me know ...,I've basically just ripped out all the 2.6-as-alternate-kernel support, so this removes the 2.6/ directories on i386 as well
OK.  I'll have to force the d-w once its there, so let me know..so upload done already, eh?
yep, just finished.how did that amd64 build go?
sorry - was grabbing a bite
thanks, fixed in 20040801ubuntu6, uploading now
iso-scan is in universe...
best place for it.did the amd64 build work this time?
Kamion: 
was that meant to be an empty reply? :)
misordered was all... d-i is uploaded
hooray! thanks.did you set up a daily-installer-amd64 build too, BTW?
can do.,done.you awake still?
?


no,use main and universe from our repos
aight, thanks
pretty much all of us, many on ibms too :).do you have the battery module loaded?
yup
cool,we'll work out what we're doing with mono officially for hoary
have alsa/whatnot modules loaded?
totally. it's not even old school cool.,yes,no drivers/firmware atm
ah, okay.where might they be?
same here
might want to update the icon in the battery applet preview (prefs).were you getting the acpid failure as well?
the one in the prefs is accurate for-- aha :).which wifi card/driver?
them little semicircles?
yeah, that concept needs to be gnomeised
I dig the mac-esque wifi applet bits
which keychain, which session?
"keychain" the app, and my GNOME session,I think SuSE does it by default, and I've set it up before in Gentoo/Fedora..  basically when you login you get a gtk-ssh-askpass, after that your passphrase is stored for ssh sessions
ssh-agent is running,add ssh-add to your session, or just run it from a terminal,if you run it from 'run application...' you get ssh-askpass-gnome :)
well fancy that,thanks
a debian default for a very long time :)
thanks for the info.is Limi involved with this project?
yeah
spiffy, just curious as I heard a rumor :).Is there anyone slated to give ubuntu.com & co a 'design'?  Is that an in-house sorta thing or are volunteers wanted?
in-house atm,not true :)


ls -l /usr/share/control-center-2.0/capplets/vino,ls: /usr/share/control-center-2.0/capplets/vino-properties.desktop: No such file or directory,hum,I've fixed a bug with the icon name during the Oxford meeting
i will retry without smbfs tomorrow, cause i'v upgraded all the packages today.,i have re tested my smb share access problem . With or without .... (you ?!) smbfs, i can't enter in shared dirs
please reply to the comment on bug reports,I've added 2 comments in 4 days on the samba bug .....you don't get the mails from bugzilla ?
i was not here since 1 day
working daily ? :)
:)
I hate the new xchat's completion


how can i request for two packages missing for a user oriented distribution ?
send mail to the sounder mailing list
i see that you changed my bug report on smbfs. But gnome can't access my windows98SE share, and complain that smbfs is not installed.
ok, perhaps that is a different bug then,it should work without smbfs,there is a network configuration tool already, though it may not be so featureful yet
do i use pumount on my dongle usb or can i unplug it directly ?.is that you managing pppoeconf ?,i'v have found some ideas for the bug 1153


http://tvon.etria.com/weblog/stuff/2004-09-01-145346_1024x768_scrot.png/view,er,http://tvon.etria.com/weblog/stuff/2004-09-01-145346_1024x768_scrot.png,150k or so,It seems to add a 1px black border to the window...roughly,let me put up a shot of industrial,http://tvon.etria.com/weblog/stuff/2004-09-01-145321_1024x768_scrot.png/image_view_fullscreen,nothing.hrm, missing x mod?
that's your problem then, your X driver doesn't support the SHAPE extension
ew
yeah, we all hate the original one.sounds like gconf has broken ... if you logout and make sure there's no gconf process running, then login again, does it work?
around?
why do you have to kick amd64?
that's what I'm going to figure out today.  it's a postfix config diff,there's a gcc-3.4...upload file on macaroni...
no it doesn't, it happens on ACCEPT mail and the buildd should be getting them
OK.  could just be the hyper-short hours....around?.I thought they banned sunshine in .uk, no?.thoughts on that ugly binNMU/powerpc thing?
i replied?
6.0.1ubuntu1 sourceful?,it only breaks our ppc sounders upgrading to the preview instead of cold-installing... :=(
so did, e.g. the flush/rebuilds :P
so you wanna just make it go away?
that was the gcc patch of doom - even patch fucked that one up,no, as in patch(1)
specific packages are actually my .procmailrc here.  Mithrandir got added to the output side of the automated handler on all the amd64 boxes.,how so>
the daily build was trying to use old linux-source, and put it in auto-dep-wait on the removed binaries.. I just forcibly gave it back for all arches
we'll do,sent.speaking of postgresql... If I have a file consisting of columnar data and want to stuff it into postgress, can I tell it to take fields from columns 41-80 of the file, or do I have to write something to process the data into sql insert commands?
AFAIK, postgresql's \copy command cannot process specific character columns,you can only give a column separator (space, comma, tab, whatever)
that's still a help, just requires me to do a simple convert.
yes, cut does that quite nicely, should be easy,good night! ',I'm taking breakfast now :-) I love time zones...
thank your local railroad, then,let me know what you want me doing.
thanks, I will write a mail on ubuntu,don't tell me there isn't!.still here?
waking up at 0530 these days means going to bed a bit earlier...
no problem :-) Good morning!.what on earth are you doing right after midnight?,actually I wanted to ask you about postgresql 7.4.5-3. According to the logs it built correctly on m68k, but the package did not go to the archive; so it cannot migrate to sarge
you gonna fix sudo back, or do I get the privilege? :-)
what do you mean? the timeout?,since I have to go in about five minutes, I would appreciate if you could do that...,hi!.may I bother you with a Debian buildd issue?,postgresql 7.4.5-3 was built on m68k some days ago, according to the build logs. but the PTS still says its out of date on m68k and it isn't in the archive,7.4.5-3 has critical bugfixes that need to go into sarge ASAP,thanks, will do,ahem - ,no, sid also has 7.4.5-3
will be shortly if I'm not already
I just did an update and so far only mdz was CC'ed
subscribed (to everything Warty :-)
thanks! (I confined it to *security* BTW)
was a matter of triviality to make it all warty...   Used to be that before the wiki move. :-()
is #1198 the only outstanding issue from the 2004 DSAs?
no - I got hijacked and saveed my changes until I could get back to them.
they are unapplied in Warty? I have a look at them and file bugs, if necessary,CAN-2004-0405 is fixed, it's contained in the upstream tarball of cvs,still checking...,CAN-2004-180 is also fixed,upstream just did it differently from the original patch,so cvs is clean :-)
well, of those two, anyway
yes :-),I take a look at this mozilal bug,mozilla
couldn't reproduce on firefox, btw
I just tried it on my own, firefox does not crash..http://scary.beasts.org/misc/pngtest_bad.png ?,nevertheless, I look into the sources to verify,I had a similar imlib bug this morning which were not reproducible with a test picture,however, the overflow still existed.
thanks
np,when will they learn _not_ to include library code in other packages? *sigh*
when people start making shared libs for their packages?
err, there have been shlib packages for libpng for ages now,well, mozilla-browser is at 1.7.2, which is claimed to be fixed...
kewl
what does "kewl" mean?
yesterday's German is derrived from yesterday's english, you know... :)
so much for Blitzkrieg, Sauerkraut and Kindergarten :-),or Zugzwang (I've hear that in some English chess discussions)
I meant that language called 'Old English'
don't know much about it,well, the German translation ("khl") sounds very similar,the mozilla 1.7.2 contains a totally different libpng version, but it seems that another thing (libpr0n) is used now. The latter one is patched,same for mozilla-firefox
about?
hi! sorry to hijack you, but are the 2004 DSAs cleared now?
so tcpdump is OK?,finally writing the email now.
yep, I digged through the tcpdump sources and security upload interdiffs,that's great. I just thought that you still had some DSAs to process
yeah, just saw that,33 to process in universe, but main done.
good to hear. I update the wiki stats.
actually < 33 in universe...
probably we should just sync universe from time to time,thanks for your work; I'm satisfied to have main cleared, universe is bonus work.debianist: debianist, do you want to process the 2004 universe bugs? lamont, can you send the list to him?
assuming he's on the cc list for the mail I just sent.
"I just sent" implies its already away. I did not get it :-(,I already have the latest artwork crack, still debugging,actually I hoped to see some sexy girls before the release :-)
we do need a prudish-option on the artwork, for some communities...
of course,but I would even prefer the older artwork, with the logo,it was better to show to friends than this debugging stuff,as long as it's long hair, I don't mind
yeah - we go back and forth on that - she's grown it long again for me...
my condolescence,I just *love* long hair :-)
I'm there with you...  Todo list has stuff, but nothing that's 'before preview'
that means I can actually go to my Tae Kwon Do training this evening? I did not attend to it for two weeks now
but, it's TKD... :-)
so what?
was alluding to the fact that martial arts are like religion. "Mine is most correct!", for all values of "mine".
maybe. I don't do it because of the philosophical part :-) It's good workout, trains both muscles and brain
ppc, or i386?
yes,but it SUCKS,that's why I disabled it,also, I wanted to test it
Computer -> System Administration.changing the text editor preference?
yup
oh, wow, that's *special*;  please file a bug :p
aight ;)
as long as its of your face,:}
how hard would it be to get squid to receive a request, then send it to a bunch of other servers but ignore the answers from those servers?,I usually only get around 500kB/sec, which is fairly slow, considering my pipe is a 100Mbit.,you can get access on mine; drop me a signed mail with ssh key + username.type it in?,mail sent, sorry for the delay.
no stress.. thanks
what automake?
latest is fine.
ok, done
cool! thanks!
it's on my home DSL, so it might be a bit high-latency, but should otherwise be fine.
P I N G
pong
amd64 hangs - kernel oops 002
randomly or when doing foo?
when using the machine :|
it's kinda hard to debug without more information..
what would you like - dmesg? transcribed (all 3 lines) of oops?
oops would be a start, yes.,thanks
around ?
pong
pong
you pinged me six hours ago or so
yes, my amd64 hangs
ew; same error as last time?
I dunno, cause I can't get to the console :|
hmm, ok, and you didn't do anything special before this?,echo rtc >> /etc/modules
I can't get it to do anything other than lockup.


as long as its of your face,:}
the 2 might be very similar :).are you in contact with Paolo?
yes,he's just gone on holiday for a bit.
ok.. so am i for m68k and ia64 :-)
have you got fixes for 241258 ?
no. we are working on it,paolo gave me a bunch of patches, but none of them work
ah.
pitti: i already did :P
 have you tried 2.1.8 ?
2.1.8-2 is the last one i uploaded to debian,Version: 2.1.8-2
arh. Ok, I must be seeing warty :}
yeah ehhehe
oh ?
most of this fancy benchmark tools are fake
oh, completley agree. but the same tool run again and again, that gives a common baseline.,glxgears is dimply inidicative, 3d accel working should give 1+K per second in the default window..can fglrx run on amd64 ?
that can means several things. a) not all the hw accelartion is supported and some is done in software 2) your hardware sucks 3) the driver sucks
for me, radeon 9600xt, 1920xwhatever res, running 'radeon' driver at the moment.
some driver do not accelarate over a certain resolution,for eg the nvidia goes banana over 1600x1200
radeon doesn't do any recent cards
pong
I'm trying to build a custom kernel with fuse as a module..
your initrd is not good
who is now ?
did you do a custom config?
well, it looked good to me, I was thinking a missing cramfs patch.
or even better.. why don't you just build the fuse module?.with what error?,btw we are up to 2.6.10-3-686
I'll update and try with -3-
if you can tell the source where you grab the fuse stuff i can check it for you
aptitude install fuse-source,and thanks!
this is the problem,the module will fail even if compiled in.around?,the kernel is ok. the fuse code is old. this patch will make it compile and load properly: http://people.ubuntulinux.org/~fabbione/fuse.diff,but i need you to test if it will work properly afterwards
you rock. I"ll play with it tongiht I hope.
ok,ENOPROB
I've a LCD screen and it looks perfect for me
if you examine it closely, even?
yes. .do you have the problem with this : http://ftp.gnome.org/pub/GNOME/teams/art.gnome.org/backgrounds/GNOME-FraserIsland.png ?
http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu warty main,but you're very much on your own doing something like that.
here ?
and getting new requirements all the time!
hey.we want dynamic changes for the Documents place ?
what changes?.oh, the special Documents icon in nautilus?
yes, I've it working with test on nautilus startup and gconf key,but dynamic changes according to the real fs need to monitor HOME all the time apparently
that's going to bite,oh man,baby jesus is crying :|
could you make the build logs for gcc-3.4 i386 and amd64 available?
I'll copy them over, but they come down to 'xargs: rm: terminated by signal 4',chinstrap:~lamont/gcc-3.4_3.4.1ds1-7ubuntu4_20040901-1604 
yep


8 days to sydney!,bring a roll mat.do i need to bring a sleeping bag?,i don't mind kipping on the floor for one night,ok, will bring one then
nah, the mattress is yours :)
i'll buy you a beer :)
heh, word
like yast is much better
that's total cargo cult usability tho,'if my control panel looks like OS X, maybe my users will know what "fstab File" means!'
man.Where should I fetch the installer from?,Yes
it's on http://wiki.no-name-yet.com/Archive
thank you
yes,too many bugs in 1.0PR1 for us to consider it supportable; see the mailing lists and Bugzilla
yes,ah ah,rejecting the fault on jdub ? :),no, ps ax | grep setting,(check if gnome-settings-daemon is running),ok.which icon theme are you using ?
a) it's a completely virgin, today's daily ISO install, I haven't configured anything, b) I dunno, how do I find out? :),suede,no suede-icons
thanks.here ?.could you accept gtkhtml3.2 which is in warty/NEW ?
done - is someone (jdub?) going to be recompiling exchange* for the new gal/soup?
can't afford to lose any more time away,yeah,so probably arrive late afternoon 15th -> leave morning 16th.no couch love?,heh,man, i was so first in saying i'd come,bloody kiwi blow-ins,frigging hell, this i855fix or whatever stevea needs seems to be very, very obscure,(as in, i spent 10 minutes and can't find it)
dude
the expat thing?,i think so, yah
will fix then DUDE,if you gimme a .dsc and .diff I can sponsor.
hmm
ping.dude have you prepared that?
arse. are you using an lcd?
nope, crt mon,ok, thanks
dude...
here,it's just a simple detached signature of Release
ok, cool.  any particular words of wisdom to add if I'm telling folks how to do this?  is apt-ftparchive the cool tool, I've always just used dpkg-scanpackages and dpkg-scansource ...
yes, apt-ftparchive is the way to go,it can generate Release files as well,you'll probably want to do a slide on apt-key as well,the biggest problem, as usual with these things, is key management
yes.  what's the right url for the current archive key to give folks?.what's this about?
you are pointing at an archive with a Release file signed by a key that you haven't told apt to trust
well, that ought to be the current Debian unstable Release file...,installing apt 0.6.25 gave me this for a key:,so, I gather this means the apt pkg in experimental is actually out of date relative to the current key...
the .gpg doesn't get moved into place if it's no good
aha,so, I need to give Christian's key to apt-key then...,bingo.  thanks for the help.
no problem,yes, because they are incompatible,welcome to my personal hell
so, I'm downgrading back to 0.5.27 for now... sigh,I'll try again when I'm not t-minus a few hours from needing my notebook for a talk...  ;-)  Like, next week.
the idea is to add the initial user to sudoers, and use gksudo to let them run GUI admin applications
oh, I see.  hrm..so you're trying to get one password typing per login session as a behavior?
with a password, of course,no, I think the argument was that it would be confusing when it prompted for the password sometimes and not other times
oh, right, silly me, that makes it always prompt for a password, doesn't it... ick
no big deal in the GUI, but very irriatting on the command line
true.you maintain the zaptel and asterisk packaging?
I used to,zaptel anyway,I maintained an asterisk/zaptel-based PBX at my previous job; I no longer have the relevant hardware and the packages need a new maintainer
I just picked up a digium developer's kit to play with (pci card with one each fxo and fxs daughter cards), and was a bit underwhelmed by what's in /usr/share/doc/<blah>, but will defer being annoying about it for now.
wnpp #251938
thanks for the pointer, I'll prod Mark
there's a #asterisk or similar somewhere
right.  email sent.,fwiw, the kit I bought came with a floppy containing a set of config files for playing with this board set as delivered, and a script with associated README for doing an install from CVS that includes Debian-specific info in the README about build dependencies, but the script's automatic checker still only does RH/Mandrake.  Still, it felt less Debian-hostile out of the box than a lot of things do.  ;-)
upstream is very cvs-update-make-make-install oriented; for a long time they didn't even really *do* releases,not a very fun position for the Debian maintainers :-)
I've sent email, maybe I'll be able to make an impression on them.  actually, packaging an installer based on the script included in this development kit might not be an unreasoanble thing to do.  worth pondering.
hah, I have the same one
truly.  my notebook supports USB 2.0, so that's become highly desirable as an interface for me personally.,yeah, printing on the PSC-950 from CUPS just works, and it hotplugs just fine
I keep my computers in the closet and extend peripherals to my desktop via USB; it works quite nicely except that I still have a parallel printer (which requires another cable) and a SCSI scanner (which collects dust)
heh, my scanner mostly collects dust too.  I use it maybe 3 times a year.,ick
but of course, I won't buy one of those, because I already have one I can't use and need to get rid of :-).is there a web resource for HP multifunction printer compatibility with Linux?
there's a project at sourceforge... I'll find it for you.
hpoj.sf.net?
hpoj.sourceforge.net
found it, thanks
I'm using those drivers with a PSC-950 and CUPS using the Debian hpoj packaging and it seems to work for printing... haven't tried anything else.
I was looking at an officejet 6110
I don't know the new models, sadly... let me go look
the table on hpoj.sf.net seems to say that the usual stuff works,I assume the fax and copy capability works independently of the PC entirely
we bought the PSC-950 for two reasons.  one was the cool "gimme a proof sheet I can mark up and scan to get the photos off the camera card" feature, which my wife loves, and to replace our fax machine.  Neither of those require a PC.  I also use it to print things that I need to print in color by plugging a USB cable in to my laptop.  I recently bought one of the network interface boxes for it but I haven't plugged it in yet.  Supposedly allows full-feat
yeah, I'm not much interested in photos, and I already have a flash card reader.  just looking for basic print/scan/copy/fax functionality,and the oj 5510 has a very nice price
the copier stuff in the PSC-950 works fine, I've only used it as a scanner with the Windows software and only to see if it worked (I have a perfectly adequate SCSI interfaced scanner on another machine),I haven't actually touched any of the models more recent than the one we bought.  The hpoj site's compatibility table will tell you which driver features are known to work with which models.  Just make sure you check that first.
doing so now, thanks for the pointer,no, we didn't have a chance to make udebs of tohse
ok.  I notice this because the HP tc1100 tablet has a 100bT interface that's found but not connected, and an Atheros wireless a/b/g card that's present but unrecognized until after install.  adding an ath0 clause to /etc/network/interfaces manually fixed that adequately, but it's icky.
there's a table in the wiki HardwareSupport page which includes notes about the few drivers which aren't supported in the installer, but are in the installed system,no need to edit interfaces by hand; computer->system config->networking->add :-)
that failed for lack of root privs, so I popped a terminal window and just did it.  not sure why it failed.
it prompts for your password via gksudo
my password didn't work.  that machine is rebooting right now, can try again in a minute or two.,aha.  what failed was Applications/System Tools/Network Tools/Devices, change the interface to ath0, and try to configure.  that wants a root password.
are you up to date?  I seem to recall us fixing a bug like that
fresh install from released iso scortching the preview release that was previously installed and updated
oh, never mind. different tool
going down the path you suggested works,right.  count on me to stumble upon the one that doesn't work first.


what's the current thinking on ruby1.8?
you requested a sync, and I approved it
around?
ping
yo
what's the story on those tetex bugs?  I thought we synched those
I was working on looking at them to confirm that they were really dead before I closed them.  I'll force it above the cutline after my late lunch today.,about,yet another initrd-tools uploaded,just waking up, or are you still fighting sleep.eta for an rc?
on or about Warty final,#1257 headed your way,certainly
definitely,and I think it's just a matter of sync'ing the package,the other question is whether or not OO.o should depend on the spell package, rather than suggest...,I think it'll be a 2-line patch: gotta disable autoconnecting to debian, and enable autoconnecting to ubuntu...


Did you already upload the pmount-enabled gvm?.I just plugged in a normal USB stick with a partition, it appears in HAL, but nautilus does not do anything. Is this really the same package you announced for testing in your homedir?,at least one good piece of news: still remember my partitionless USB stick? it doesn't work with sid's hal, but does with Warty's.although hal shows a proper volume node for my partitionless USB stick, it is not recognized by gvm. Any idea?
I'm not sure what you mean by partitionless USB stick, it has to have a partition of some kind, no?
no, what for? Its just a waste of space,I just mount /dev/sda straight.do you only consider partitions?,CD-ROMs don't have partitions either,the stick is not mounted,so obviously it fails already at the first stage
do dbus-monitor --system and insert the key,tell me if you see a new device notification
I don't have this program???,I'm right back, I have to go over to get network on my laptop. I left my crossover cable in Oxford,I did that. I just get the kernel notifications of the new device, but dbus-monitor does not print anything,but I do see a node "OTI-6803 Flash Disk" (the device) which has one child "Flash Disk" which has a block.device property (/dev/sda)
hal (as it stands now) is very naive
must block.is_volume be 1 to be recognized by gvm? The property exists, but it is 0. Can this be the cause?
yes probably
but it has the correct block.major and block.minor property values,info.capabilities is "block storage"
Keybuk: if block.is_volume < 1 i don't think gvm will mount it, let me check
can we extend this to look at info.category or info.capabilities?,as I already said, 0.2.97 is even a regression,whereas the Warty hal properly recognizes my USB stick, the sid version does not any more
I believe that hal requires a partition table (it sounds like your device doesn't?),the storage.xxxx properties are only for the master device, (ie. /dev/hda) you don't get those entries in specific volumes (ie. /dev/hda1)
so maybe we could use the master device if no partitions are present?,if we drop CD-ROMs from fstab in the future (probably not for Warty any more), this must work anyway
the real place this needs to change is in hal,not gvm,hal already handles cdroms seperately
okay. but how is hal supposed to handle that? Do the check if no partitions are present, and if not, set block.is_volume to 1?
it can't do that because you may insert a device without any paritions on it or without direct access and it would still have block.is_volume = 1 (though you can't mount it),we actually need to profile these devices within hal
I thought only partitions get is_volume=1?
I believe cdroms get it as well,if there is a session on the disk that is
does it really hurt to try mounting the whole device if no partitions are present? If there's no filesystem, the mount will just fail,BTW, Warty's hal cannot detect file systems any more, I deprived it from group 'disk'.hmm. Any idea about sabdfl's odd device?.I thought that gvm uses devices with is_volume=1?
I'm going to drop the kernel log level, its the only way to rid that stuff
you could disable it temporarily for hotplug
that is a good idea as well, I think I'd prefer that,I think mdadm also spews a bunch of kernel stuff
can you cc me as well, please?
sure
ping
pong
^,mdz seems to be hesitant to allow big pmount/hal patches for this.do you have any idea how to achieve this device locking unintrusively?
the patches shouldn't be that big, should they?
not for the cd creator, but for pmount
if only pmount was in python ;)
I would _really_ like to write pmount in python, this would safe a lot of trouble
thats a hoary goal
but there are no suid-root python programs, are they?
well, kinda,you'd have to create a suid wrapper in C that calls pmount
hmm, that could work
you'd basically create a python library that would handle both mounting and unmounting, then have the c frontend call it,if you wanted to, you could even embed the python interpreter for speed
freeze.py?,na, this is something to fill huge Windows cds with,this does not buy any speed advantage


typical.. sometimes I do wonder how you actually write any code.. *grin*
ber.huzzah. where are amc these days?
still cheltenham.. moving to moorabbin in 2 weeks *sigh*
ahr
feel like talking about X.org again? *grin*
given i'm moving to east ivanhoe tomorrow night, how about no? :P
bugger!,where in ivanhoe? I'm in alphington
ormond road, between ivanhoe and eaglemont station (just east of both, a little closer to eaglemont than ivanhoe)
ahh ok.. I know the area but not the road.. cool stuff.. hrm.. possibly have LOS.. *grin*
i'm still not sure how much bandwidth I have, so that might actually be nifty ;)
heh..
31 j7,i'm apparently about halfway down the street
and I have a 24 dBi grid sitting next to me that I can probably loan you for a few weeks
er, mike's been in st kilda for a bit over a year now, dude :)
doh! keep forgetting that,afternoon
hey dude
trying to install a dual-opteron system atm
hey dude
got the dual opteron installed - yay!
nice
x detection failed during the installer though *thump!*
we don't have a way to do ddc on amd64 short of emulating x86, making the int call and just hoping for the best
onboard ATI Rage XL, so I can see why... but still.. I'm sure you have RageXL cards amongst those I gave you *hint hint!*,ahh fair enuff
they work fine on i386 :)
no, it's just figured out that you don't matter.. *grin*,must be the installer.hey, you don't know what the ubuntu logo font is, do you?


hey warthogs.should i have instant auto-mounting usb drive nautilus-showing happiness?
actually yes, if you use the latest packages,I just tried it myself, does not work for me either. Funny, it worked with Nathaniel's test package.what do you use for testing?.i. e. what kind of device?
flash card watch, i think keybuk and daf have the same
USB?,Ah, I remember daf's one. I did not test it at the conference
yess
does it have partitions?,(or, at least, one?)
yes
hmm. seems like hal still needs a lot of work. Can you see the thing in hal-device-manager?,there should be a device node with a proper name with a child node which is a volume
yes
that's the device node. does it have any children, which are volumes? With a rectangular gray box as icon,the volumes should have a property block.is_device,sorry, block.is_volume.is it 1?,can you pmount it manually? I. e. 'pmount /dev/sda1' (it is sda1, I suppose),BTW, do your hotplug USB drives finally work automatically? Last time we did not come to debug it. 
they are getting mounted correctly now, but nautilus isn't popping up to display the files
does the device appear in the Computer window?,it *could* be today's update, depending on the type of device you have. But it's good to hear that it works now
works now, didn't this morning :-)
Good morning!,Say, could you life with having icons at the desktop for automounted volumes? (See sounder ML)
no thanks
icon in the panel?
yes, much better
IMHO this is the only other sane approach,IMHO its quite important to have an obvious and safe unmounting possibility, but bug fixing is important as well. No precedence on my side,since I'm quite unfamiliar with gnome programming, I would rather concentrate on bug fixing and security review and have e.g. seb or npmccallum do this thing
if mdz is happy for you to do this then fine by me, but i think the team as a whole should be rc-focused,agreed, and seb needs to do other things first
okay, then bugs get highest prio; I think it is not the end of the world if we don't manage this icon in time,because now we can umount in the computer window, so at least there is _one_ possibility,I talked to sb about our current security policy and its implementation, he was really impressed :-),yesterday I showed the handling of removable devices to a Windows user, he was impressed that it "just worked" without installing any driver and stuff,so, yes! ,I would prefer a local page (like the Debian package of mozilla does), since it does not require net connection,to watch html files, read documentation, watch cups jobs, etc.,hoary could come with a fancy network detection script in the postinst and install a local/webbased homepage based on its outcome
could be unpredictable
maybe it fails for some people, but if these notice that firefox tries to access a network page, they could change the homepage on their own.will we have a slighly better ubuntu-artwork in tomorrow's release?,I know, technically it's not the most important thing, but it does not look good on presentations.I spotted several glitches on the websites (canonical.com/ubuntulinux.org). Who can I bother this with?,yes, unfortunately,it has to run scripts in /etc/dhclient/somewhere as root,mdz: for dhclient we could also implement a suid wrapper around the script,sounds good and documents existing practice :-),hal of the day is coming :-)
whoop! was getting withdrawal symptoms :-)
but don't eat it up completely, it fixes three bugs and has to last for a few days :-),yes, because if they see it the first time, they might be embarassed,not in Islamic religion
so it doesn't unmount if you close the window?
this would be a nice feature, but other apps may still access it,it would. If it works, then it shoudl be done
this is what I get ...
pmount /dev/sda1
ok that worked ... but it didn't do it automatically,dbus-1-utils iirc
is this an USB stick?
it's a digital camera that appears as a usb storage device
should work as well....what's your info.capabilities?
that key doesn't exist
do you have storage.drive_type.?.do you actually have a proper volume node as a child of the actual device node?
well, there's a /dev/sda1
unstable's hal is even worse, it still runs as root.does your camera have partitions?
very :-/  my pc downstairs is plugged in to the DTS amp ... ESD beeps at anything greater than about 5-10% break windows
"Did you have turned on your ears?".do you have a weapon certificate for this thing?,there is a nice MacOS X application to disable this annoying startup sound,Good morning!.why did you close #canonical?,I thought we wanted to have a private channel in addition.ever seen fabbionne's to compare?,not really, chinstrap.warthogs, people, wegiveback, all the same
hey hey hey
good morning! :-),Yeeeeaahh!.do you happen to know which part of the Nautilus source manages the umountable devices?
nup :)
thanks for resubscribing!,told us about some webcams,I'm right at building a new snmpd that does not run as root any more (see #1151) and now I saw your freeze mail. Good timing...,it's a trivial change and another process not running as root any more is probably a good thing.can I upload it?.here?
yeah
I prepared a new mysql-dfsg package (bug #1198), can you please approve it?,I just added an interdiff and a comment.do you think you can approve #1142 today?
checking,heh 8)
thanks, boss :-)
mdz's the boss, i'm just the bad cop :)
at which exact time we will release? I. e. up to which time we can do uploads?
http://wiki.ubuntu.com/WartyWarthog_2fPreviewReleaseDayZero
thanks
unlikely that matt and i will be approving many uploads between now and then :)
does it make sense for me to continue to work on #1217? It's a pretty complicated gnome-vfs bug,if such changes won't get approved, it does not make sense to waste time on it now,I also have to continue security review
that's currently marked as severity normal,you should raise it if you want matt and i to consider it for upload confirmation
I already tried for over an hour to find a solution; as long as I don't have one, I cannot request an upload confirmation
i would consider it critical though
I just wanted to know if the bug is severe enough to be regarded as a blocker,it works fine for my two CD-ROMs BTW
is this an upgrade issue?
as long as the installer does not write /media/cdrom into fstab (which is symlinked to /media/cdrom0) everything goes well,I've got no idea. Maybe
yes, we will,folding back to gnome icons and no debugging backgrounds, etc.
thanks
latest ubuntu-artwork redefines the icons btw
I really liked the old brown background with the ubunto logo. Sth similar?
yeah, though with a solid background,look at the list of critical and above bugs
will do,hi!
the demonstration of project utopia + pmount stuff went really well :-),hmm,if a device has no partitions,,just a formatted block device
it is not recognized
have you--
known bug :-/,I know, hal is the problem,it only recognizes volumes with block.isvolume=1,I already discussed that with npmccallum, no easy solution with current hal,we already considered several hacks, but none of them really solved this problem.actually not; who needs a single partition on a device?
*yes* :),:)
still feeling the ill effects of yesterday's coke? :-)
which hal version?
? I'm currently packaging 0.2.98.what is s-j?.ah, I see. It's nice, I agree. But why does it need a newer hal?
oh, i'm not asking for s-j's sake,ignore that thread entirely
anyway, I have to fix one last major bug, then mdz and I agreed to throw it at our victims^W^Wthe public
you forgot the third reason
?,whoever that is...,mind to enlighten me? :-)
(the son of god, who didn't cry when he was born)
of course I know "Jesus", I just thought you meant somebody else in particular
it kinda weirded me out that you were asking ;)
I thought it were the nick of a security addict,never mind :-)(.I noticed that we now have gamin instead of FAM. Congrats! But does our kernel already support inotify?
turn up the volume
I'm not going to comment this
the launchpad dudes are using a pygtk thingy


dude!
yo
RA
kazzah!,heya :)
new install mockup in the mail to you
got it,will reply after dinner :),there is no root password :),(i don't believe gksudo falls back even if there is.).does s-j *require* a very new HAL?
colin walters thinks so, he mailed me the patch :),pitta is testing a new HAL,today i'm going to install it and check it actually works
eugenia wants us to upgrade hal so she can build s-j... ;),she *might* just get it as a bonus
she can build it without hal like everyone else
OH NO THE NEWER VERSION IS NEEEDED
ping
I've seen your comment on the bug, let it open if you want but we have no build problem so that's no a priority for the moment (the hal support is not even turned on)
yeah, i'll downgrade severity
was a bug in hal finally ?
yah
we can remove licence displaying like that (ie: your xsane upload) ?
there are no firefox bugs, only gtk bugs
right, blame gtk :p
there's a bug on industrial; it diverts the cursor theme away but doesn't actually provide the files
I know, was just kidding :)
cool, that was easy.  now let me run some other bugs by you ;)
I've reassigned the bug to jdub since he has uploaded the broken gtk2-engines-industrial :)
#6175 is yours if you want it ...


how about scsi devices?
by now we only accept USB and FireWire,But I just made an interesting discovery: from kernel 2.6.8 on, there is a /sys/block/*/removeable file,of course we accept SCSI devices that are actually USB devices
ok.,or 2% to usually make _some_ noise.
All computers I know of need at least 60% to produce sth audible, so 2% is not much different from 0...,what the hell did you connect your sound card with? A 1000 W amplifier? :-)
my laptop needs that, but my home box is a lot happier with ~10-20%,nah, a 35W amp and a 100W amp
just kidding.,just upgrade to the newest ubuntu-artwork package. This worked for me
thanks, that helped
it doesn't look very human yet, though :-(
on mount, echo devicename into /var/run/pmount/$username, on umount request, check if it exists in /v/r/p/$username and if not, refuse.
something along these lines, yet
it sounds fairly simple and non-intrusive to me, but I haven't looked at the source code
it is easy, but mdz abhors code changes for new features at this stage, so we must get this absolutely correct 
ok
I don't really like the fact to make pumount depend on external status information...,I just uploaded a new pcmcia-cs which does not create and remove device nodes on its own when devfs/udev is used,and I need somebody to test it. tvon will do it, but he is asleep,it's version 3.2.5-7ubuntu6, should appear in about 15 minutes ,thanks!,no,this is unlikely to be solved within Warty,somebody proposed an external upgrade-to-warty package/script,we cannot just put random users into this group,I just got an idea about the state file: what if an USB drive is ripped off (/dev/sda), then I hotplug a real SCSI disk (/dev/sda as well)? The user should not be allowed to pumount it then.,okay, this is a pathological case, but still...
you mean hotplug scsi drives aren't considered removable? ;P.and, won't pmount just mount it under /media/$UUID or something?
well, in the current policy we only regard USB and firewire devices as removable
I was kidding.
that's right, the mount point must be below /media/. That could help us.,I just want to avoid the case that root hotplugs a new SCSI device as /usr and the user can umount it,but you're right, I still check that the mountpoint is /media/*, so this will not work
and that the mount point is mounted with user=$USER
right, uid=...,but I don't know if this is the case with every file system.but actually, isn't it enough to compare uid=xxx with getuid() in pmount?,then we could circumvent the state file completely,right, but if the admin mounts a SCSI drive with uid=1000 (or so), he loses anyway,yes! we want to waste people's color ink,:-)
KDE certainly stood for Kool Desktop Environment at some point; I distinctly remember seeing it on kde.org
yes, some time ago they officially declared it as K interpretation,I just talked about the birth of the project; at that time it was supposed to resemble CDE, so C -> K
I think this was around KDE 1.0 or something..
yes,I think the upcoming live CD will be a great tool for this
I'm thinking for debian as well
sure; I have a 20 MB Mini-Debian rescue cd here
like libc. :=
hmm, but there are pretty good changes that he already has libc6 :-)
not libc6-dev


it's just using /dev/ttyUSB0,i was thinking,what might be biting you is udev,and hotpluggy things,where the device name isn't there by the time gnome-pilot wants it or something,pipka doesn't use udev or anything yet,the person to ask about these things is jpr on gimpnet,the weird thing about the pilot is that the device is really only there when you press the connect butto,which sucks arse,and unavoidable afaics
what rate is she using on ttyUSB0?.gimpnet == irc.wht?
irc.gimp.org or irc.gnome.org,he's away now though,based in boston
when is a good time to catch him?
hrm, a few hours ago,i don't really know :)


if you can get a hold of the logs, there's stuff from mark0 about his inability to install amd64
I'll check fabbione's log, thanks,sounds like he had the same problem I did.ew, why?
compatibility and sanity?
a feature-overloaded ifconfig wouldn't be compatible with anything else anyway
I hear a lot of whining from FreeBSD users
yeah, I hear a lot of whining from FreeBSD users, too.  I tend to tune it out :-P
I find the fact that I can add extra IP addresses and change duplex a plus
ooh!
needed how?
in that when X autoconfigures a synaptics device in XF86Config, it points at psaux.with Driver "synaptics"?,you just have to set it after you open the terminal,dan jacobson repeatedly fucks with the severity after somebody fixes it, though
oh, then revise to "why . instead of -?".why not grep for the actual string?
which actual string?,we only want to load snd-foo-oss if snd-foo is loaded,it's either . or [_-] ,2.4 vs. 2.6.around?
in terms of archive layout, 'restricted' doesn't exist yet, right?.will it?
it will soon
is there going to be a prompt on the cd about restricted?
current directive is "no"
what is the interface to universe
edit /etc/apt/sources.list by hand and We Hope You Know What You're Doing,Lalland Scots / Doric: Ah can eat gless, it disnae hurt us. (?).maybe explain the version number?
yeah, i'd thought of that
or link to the FAQ
good point,added the bonus (inevitable) question: "what happens is 2100" :)
wasn't there a character named Ubu in that book you were reading?,night,hey
the instructions there, about the type of bullet point and all, are still applicable
Well, I added it to DesktopSeed, as instructed by jdub, but I did put it under a PROPOSED heading with an a. bullet.
Kamion: https://bugzilla.no-name-yet.com/show_bug.cgi?id=489
Ah, cool :),My gf has had lots of trouble with her ipw2200 on her new laptop.  She needs to reboot on average once an hour to get it to work.  Seems like the ipw2200 driver is still rather rough :(,There's a python dhcp server, so I guess it could be built on that...
upgrade lsb-base and acpid
i'm up to date
what error do you get?
i don't find error :/ where do i search from ?,acpid works, but i must launch it manually in a root sterm,s/sterm/xterm
run "/etc/init.d/acpid stop;/etc/init.d/acpid start" on the terminal,(as root),sudo -s first, if necessary
ok i have error on start, * Unable to load module: toshiba_acpi
confirm that you've got acpid 1.0.3-19ubuntu8 installed? (dpkg -l acpid)
yes,yes it is
in /etc/defaults/acpid, change MODULES to 'MODULES="battery ac processor button fan thermal" ',ok, fixed. just uploading
it's ok,commented MODULES="all" and uncommented  MODULES="battery ac processor button fan thermal",restart acpid by init script . It's ok,please close this https://bugzilla.no-name-yet.com/show_bug.cgi?id=991
whoops!
needs a better bra. :-)
nah, they just went in,don't think the package is finished building yet,http://www.gnome.org/~jdub/random/battstat-and-wireless-icons.png,yeah,that'd be rad,pretty much, with gnome-volume-manager,i don't think anyone would have an issue with further use,MEATY HAL!,except the solaris guys,and the freebsd guys
...and it has to work on Solaris, too,just kidding!.not sure I like the red in the disabled mode; did you already say you were changing that?
yeah,i can't just be grey, because 'no link' is also grey ;)
this stuff doesn't seem to be built in Warty yet, so I can't see it here
nah, just uploaded,no


i've been using nvidia at work for the most part.,the ati closed source drivers are impossible to support as they currently stand, imo,yeah, my uni connection would be great, but the packet shaping is slowing it down :|,was only getting 10kbps :|,i was doing 1.4MB/sec http xfers from ftp.cs.umn.edu to gluck
fooishbar.org (at cs.pdx.edu) is getting 1.2MB down on i386, plus 830 on amd64, and 840 on powerpc
cool.you have a http or rsync from there i can use?.so i can snag those images?
email an ssh public key to daniel@fooishbar.org
awwman, thats work!  :),its not a huge deal, i'll have the images within the hour
heh.ftp.cs.umn.edu?
yah
nice :)
now all you need to do is port the x.org i915 driver to the current x server ;)
ha ha ha 
i've got a 8-way opteron box in the mail, as far as i know
sadly the crap imake system won't parallelise
$26k of yummy, 8-way, 32gb/memory goodness.
*nice*.,i'll swap you that for concordia (up, 2gb)
heh, its the univ's box ;)
where should I send my SSH key to?
i might be able to negoiatiate that in the summers when it wont be used much at all,it would make one hell of a build machine.
cool
your x.org upload took a ton of time to sync.you ever sleep?
dude, it's 6pm in europe :)
is there a possibility to do hd install from the livecd and than upgrade?,ok, thanks mdz.how's support for lowmem, lowend machine ?,i'd like to install it on a p4 512mb system, 256mb piii 800mhz system. and pi 100mhz 32mb ,3 test machines.gnome is installed by default?.oh, so server console only install is still not available?
boot with 'custom' to do a minimal install,where minimal == our large base of the good stuff :),the sounder cds are just fortnightly builds we know will work,there should be, forget where though,a seed is a list of high-level package requirements we build the archive from
: like a list of dependencies?
essentially, yeah,looks like Keybuk is about to
I can take over that , is this possible? (ofcourse I'd need slight direction for starters)
possibly a bit difficult at the moment
: ok. I guess thing will get much clearer in 2 weeks or more
navigate from /cdimage/
: oh goody, will I be surprised by the ubuntu installer? anxiuosly waiting for the download to complete..:).: is it fb ? text ?
(same as d-i)
: who's working on it? me and a another guy wanted to continue the GUI installer project, however after long discussions with the folks over #debian-boot , 
(probably better to ask in the d-i channels than here),if it's a router, you can always enter 'custom' at the installer boot prompt,then it'll just install base
: oh right , forgot about it. i am having to less sleep over the last couple of days. thansk,: it was me even that asked you same question 2 days ago.: what is pmount?
a special policy-based mounting tool,it's used by gnome-volume-manager in ubuntu,so normal users can mount and unmount removab-- thanks pitti ;),bug in current versions, was fixed about 10 hours ago,root is disabled,use sudo,ideally, read the FAQ on the wiki :)
: on my way ;),: Password:_ 
type in *your* password,yes, yours,using sudo means you never have to use your root password,we go one step further by disabling the root password entirely
: sudo wraps the root process ?.: and let a regular user exectue?.: ubuntu 4.10 is the official public review?,: i though also that gnome 2.8 is targeted at Hoary..:)
this release is versioned as '4.10', but this is the preview,gnome 2.8 is in warty *now* :),it'll be gnome 2.10 in hoary
: 2.8 is unstable yet?
in the timeline on that page, it says that gnome 2.8 is due at 13:00 UTC :)
: i am upgrading now :)
not now please,you can send the invite to your friends, but not to LUGs or websites please,they will find out tomorrow :)
: official website on air?
same time as the release,some linux sites know about it,we'll be mailing various lists,if you're in the channel at release time, you'll know when it's okay to tell the world ;-)
what kind of configuration interface does warty promote for dialin/internet access?,well, nautilus with the tree view on the left side.
network-admin (from gnome-system-tools),that can be fixed, and people who need a fast terminal can fall back on xterm
should have included you to the question about the localization of the installer
i don't think we have time for a general translations request proces,but if you can provide translations to kamion, and he is not too busy to integrate them, mdz or i will most likely approve an upload,up until the 'point of no return' on the dayzero schedule
there are usually 10-30 translations to be updated, that should not be that much work..what is the last day for such uploads?
TODAY,we are talking hours now, not days :-)
yes, that's what I meant. it doesn't make sense to upload these changes now for one or two languages.
ok, see the release schedule -> final release is on october 1th,yes, you turn that on in the accounts settings
howdy all,my first time here :),would like to know if testing the live cd give a good idea of the hd installed system,hi thim,thom
not really, at present,the live CD is quite out of date compared to the install CD,no,I would not recommend attempting GNOME with 32M,that is the most recent milestone,discover, actually
: ok, the installer looks nice, works damn fast under QEMU
you should see it on real hardware :-)
: i'd like to install it on my pIV 2.6c GHZ D865PERL machine :),: I need to release some space off the sid's parition
installing from CD?,if so, it's probably a bad burn
: is it supposed to download anything from the the internet?
no, not in a CD install,"download" there means "copy"
: i see. well, it's a warty iso I downloaded today, and I'm faking a cd with the installer image under QEMU
hmm. you checked the md5sum of the CD?
: darn. does that mean I need to redownload the whole installer image?
nah, you can use rsync
: hmm, I checked the previous ones. so I passed this time :(.: rsync would reconstruct the only missing / defective part of the image?
correct
: cool,: how would I instruct rsync to repair the image? 
rsync rsync://ftp.no-name-yet.com/cdimage/.../warty-i386-1.iso <path to your existing image>
: I started rsyncing my image some time ago, still it's working..,: I wonder how  bad my image is damanged
are you sure that you're syncing the same image, and you pointed it at the correct file?
: I guess so. unless the "current" directory image has changed...: what about -u update only mode? should I choose that?
'current' could have changed, depending on when you downloaded it
: downloaded it eariler today (about 4 hours ago).: is there a tool for our use to resize linux ext3 paritions?,: rsync really did it :) it was a download error,: hey you up so late also? :)
I am UTC-7
: little bit to much for to translate to my time, where are you in ?
file a bug with the specific text that you see
: k.: can't we work out some auto unmounting scheme?,: there should be an unmounting daemon,: for cds, i reckon it's eject
yes, but it's a kernel-level thing and can't be implemented in time
: eject buttons that will appear on the desktop,: "Media Manager" window,: a foler or some sort on the desktop
currently the icons appear under Computer
: k
if a module is being loaded and failing, it probably should not be loaded in the first place, which is a bug
: noted.: assist with what?
the init script beautification work
: it's output, or the code?,: I can overview it, see what can be left out, suggest things etc. I'd like to do it however with supervision by someone more experienced in ubuntu than me :) ,: just make sure I don't do horroble mistakes..;)
yes, it should
: 4.10 is current enough?
everything is 4.10 :-),daily/20040907
: :).: what about the current directory there?.: is it falsy?
current should be a symlink to 20040907,sure, anything and everything
:  k,: what about other peripherals, digi cams, firewire xfer thingies
yes, what about them? :-)  are there any binary-only drivers that you need for such hardware?
: creative NOMAD JukeBox player, Webcam
do you have URLs and information about the drivers?,if so, please send them to me via email (description of the device, URL for the driver, any other information about it you may have)
: k, i'll have to recollect those, it's been long time since I tampared with it ;)
are these drivers that you personally use?.(and can help us to test)?
: hmmm seems there are open source "replacments" for most of them now, I will try to work out those ones than it would releive us from adding it ,: to restricted , that is
ok, let me know via email if there is anything that you feel is missing that we could add to the restricted module package
: ofcourse! np.: how many language checked from d-i ?.: how many language checked for d-i ?,: never mind that. I need to check this problem on real hardware also,: yeah, some of us are dead hungry :)).: aptitude is better than apt, right?
aptitude is a frontend to apt,at that point, your BIOS needs to be emulating a legacy keyboard
: hmmm..it might as well be a bios emulation problem. I had it failing on me when i first got the mobo, but it went away eventually,: however it was like, it worked for grub, just didn't work for saying "Yes" to fsck.: d-i suggests a small /boot partition for grub, otherwise it says it'd fail. why not having something automagically to compute the size ?,: when trying JFS
JFS is not recommended for root for that reason; it displays a warning
: it asks you manually to do that. or maybe the layman should not be tamper with JFS?,: k,: reizerfs install was sweet :),: how'd make it so fast? (bootup,shutdown,install)
er, no, hotplug is a bunch of shell scripts
: do you have any lead on this?
I don't understand the problem.  is this the issue where the volume is muted and/or set to a low value initially?
: rythmbox says /dev/dsp doesn't exist,: i have a package which according to bugtrail have been patched and there,: 's even a web spot to download the patched one .: however i cannot find it on p.d.o, debian havn't updated it yet?
can you be more specific?
: ofcourse. bugzilla 2.16.6-1_all.deb the patched one, available under http://www.tzi.de/~jmm/debian/ . however sid has  2.16.5-2: all,: this is #260773
I'll look at the bug, one moment
: thanks.
the patch is here: http://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=235265,it is straightforward and we can use that patch in warty
: ok, so tag it fixed?
no?
: ofcourse.: but what about the "fixed" pacakges by MOritz?
file a bug in Warty bugzilla with the URL of the patch,there is no reason to bring in some unofficial packages with a new upstream release to fix this simple issue; we can patch it
: so it become standard debian?
public release in _four days_ :-)
: i know mdz, i'll open a bug and continue the overnight rush :)
I don't understand your question about standard debian
: nevermind. I just didn't understand why we cannot check the unofficial package and make it official debian,: if the job has already been done
there are two things here,one is a new upstream release, with the fix _and_ other changes,the other is a patch which only has the fix
: ok
hmm,according to the changelog there are actually three bugs, not one
: you're looking at the CAN site?
I looked at the changelog for the unofficial package,have you filed a bug yet?  if not, I will do it so that I can record these findings
: doing it right now, would you like me to reference it to the other bugs?
just open the bug, so that I can add comments to it
: sure.
what's the bug number?
: darn. bugzilla just sent me back due to "bad component name" i'll re enter,: we don't bugzilla on the components list
use UNKNOWN
: #1161
thanks
: sorry about the UNKNOWN thingy, I just went and started typing, not noticing bugzilla was not identified...: the patch addresses all 4 CANs?
no
: if he uploads the new package we can close #1611 and i'll remove it from the wiki
the changelog in the unofficial 2.16.6 package
: k
also http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/pkgreport.cgi?src=bugzilla
: k,tnx again
check the changelog
: checked it,: rechecking..
Debian and Warty have the same version of libpng3,and if you read the changelog, it lists the security fixes made in 1.2.5.0-7
: right, i can see anywahere the changlog  CAN-2002-1363.,: that is, i can't see..,: which is in DSA-213-1
if you search the changelog for 1.2.5.0-7, you find 1.2.5-8
: still can't find CAN/DSA reference on the changelog for that specific secbug, nor on the bugtrails, any idea why?
usually there is not a specific reference in the changelog,sometimes because the unstable package is released before the DSA,often because the maintainer just doesn't do it; it's not required
: around?,: would be nice to support those, there are MacOS X drivers though..can't we hack them for our usage? (not in warty ofcourse),: what about security review? i'm nearly done..in about 30mins,: back in sec,: driver install didn't work :(
context?
: actually , i just rebooted after the driver install -  no sign for the module, acceleration not working..: and i'm still on 2.6.7 , i thought it was supposed to upgrade it to 2.6.8 for the nvidia drv to work..am i wrong?,: could you give me lamont's and doko's email addressed? i am sending my sec repot,: *report.: mdz@canonical.com ?
yes
: oh already sent to mdz@alcor.net
yes, you need to run the 2.6.8.1 kernel
: i think i've noticed dpkg doing just that, it upgraded the kernel
thanks for the report, so there were only two which need further investigation?
: however, i have 3 ubuntu's on this machine - and the one i wanted to have nvidia support, didn't update,: yes. i couldn't determine about them,: actually i think the glibc is fixed, however couldn't supply the proof,: please let me know of anything else regarding the report, i'd love to know and drill down more if you'd like.


I'm missing the "drawer" icon for nautilus (however there is an entry for its preferences).nautilus --browser doesn't have a desktop icon anymore?
panel icon you mean ?
if it's called so ...
we decided to only put a webbrowser/mailer/help here
so it's not possible to open the "file system browser" (the thing with the directory tree to the left) with the mouse/menus?with ,hmm, I can open it with "File/Open Browser", I cannot find anything in the preferences, and I have to know about the command to add it via "custom application launcher". why remove it? windows does have it, macosx has it.
the command: "nautilus --browser"
yes, _I_ know now, but it non abvious.
preferences -> behaviour -> always open in browser windows
8am saturday is an evil time,I should be in the snow, but instead I'm here working
the snow? what country are you in?
yeah, i'm currently fixing a bunch of stuff for those
cool
try doing it without smart upgrade
k, now the list looks sane.  I thought smart upgrade would be, well, smart.  Silly me.  :-p,thanks.  I'll have to re-read what Smart says it's doing.
seriously; to whom do I Assign a new bug?
generally, you don
that's what I expected, but when I left "Assign To" blank, ... NM.  Now when I selected "gnome-system-tools" the Assign To field got filled in for me.,also, the options list under component shrinks to nothing as soon as I've clicked in it once.  that may be part of why I got "undefined" (or whatever it was) in "Assign To" last time.,thx
I just start typing - if it goes to nothing, then clear the field and type 'UNKNOWN'
does your gtk filechooser patch default to ~/Documents?
if it exists, yes.why ?
its a little weird when the evo import filechooser goes to ~/Documents
rmdir Dociments :p,s/i/u/
i might just do that actually
yeah ;),gtkhtml3.2_3.2.0-1ubuntu1_source.changes is NEW,just need to get this one accepted
is that the experimental release, or did you and takuo update at the same time?
I was waiting for Kitame,less work :),and apparently he was waiting to get the new libsoup and gal out of NEW ... they have been accepted yesterday evening, I've waited the night to see if the was going to upload the rest and it was in incoming this morning :)
and jane have a particular model of toshiba that i've seen around quite a bit
you around?
yo
oh, i just sent you an email ,i've been working on the text for the cd cover and wanted your advice.. i also knew that you had some suggestions for stuff on the front or whatever that was not pure text so that should probably go into the same doc that we give the design company
got it, will read :),we'll resub sounder to ubuntu, but not split into user and devel yet
ok, just two lists then, ubuntu and ubuntu-announce?,my gift to you
rawk,very noice
around?,the archives aren't working,it happened like 5 minutes ago.any reason we we wouldn't want the ubuntu lists gmame'ed?
i replied to that dude and said, please do,i thought you wre cc'ed
can i get source for your ubuntu talk?,it appears i will be giving a couple of those here in The Big Apple :)
http://people.ubuntulinux.org/~jdub/ubuntu-1-2-3/
i saw those.i was looking for the source, i am blind and missing a link somewhere?
hey there.. long time,couldn't make it to auug unfortunately, otherwise would have said hello in person
hi!  oh well...
place I'm working as is moving offices.. and of course, I'm the poor sod that is organising the move


true, but it's slow at starting them,and it's started by default at boot, which imho is bad,should have an entry in /etc/defaults that you can enable/disable, and by default is disabled,erm, /etc/default/ even,samba will have trouble keeping track of netbios machine names afaik.. so lookups could take significantly longer, or even fail (SMB/CIFS is a horrid piece of shit like that),well you could seperate that.. run nmbd directly, and run smbd from inetd.. no reason you couldn't do that,the main problem is binding to the port. if you can get away from that, you don't need root.centre/left-top/bottom-right ?,hrm, my stomach is grumbling
: you want coordinates?,: go get some serials dude ;).: I've seen this problem also in knpooix and mandrake move, could it be something unrelated to ubuntu ?
probably. most likely it can't detect the resolution the screen is doing, or it's using vesafb in eg: 640x480, and not scaling the screen to the full res (not that you want to do it that way, as it looks terrible)
: I thought also that this is the nvidia free driver problem, but after testing the drive on the debian sid I have on the same system, I was proven wrong.,: i'd test it and come back to you , need to reboot into the livecd again :),: back,: ok, trying to reset solution doesn't yeild nothing. seems like it's ignoring my keystrokes.,: i have all 4 XFree configs (.in also) ,: my usb mouse wasn't detected / installed (noticed an entry on the Xfree86-4 file, but coudln't figure if this is the one it was using),: correction, was detected (infra red light on and everything) however not responding..?
not netinst afaik.. netboot yes, netinst no
: they patented that?,: :((.: improvments to your link?
my isp had bandwidth issues a while ago.. now it's much better.. getting ~200KB/sec
: yeeha! they released the heavy artilary...mines' merely doing 80Kb on a good day,: use rsync
ha ha ha.how much time do you have?,there is no right answer, and not fixing it right now is the least stupid option,btw, we've already done a bit about bad xinerama<->glx interactions with mergedfb, meaning you can now do that meaningfully on radeon,dude, other side of the world
optus is apparently having upstream issues..,From the Optus website: 'Due to a heavy traffic demand on the international web link, OptusNet customer's may be experiencing slow browsing speeds when attempting to access international sites after 6pm. We are aware of this problem and it is being investigated.'
you'd be routing optus->telstra->usa->uk?,ah, suck
optus(melb-syd)-singtel(syd-sanjose)-level3(sanjose-newyork-london)-mnet(london-) and then the traceroute dies
if you want, i'll have a full warty mirror soon :),i'm over at crazney's house, rsyncing now
might be faster than currently
ah, fair enough,well, if you want to come around and grab the i386 mirror, you're welcome to it
I'm almost tempted to drive into the city, sit across the road from maccas with the lappy and the wireless card and leech it form there,I should be able to download you a copy of the iso and drop it around,and I can give short term a celeron on an i815 m/board with a 6 gig drive
dude, that would be absolutely sensational, thanks,sounder 8,cool, ta,nope,heh, yeah. given our team meeting the other day started at 0200, my bedtimes have been 0340, 0220, 0200 and 0557 the past couple of days,heh :)
ok, cya in 10
rad, thanks :)
how'd it go?
yeah, worked well, thanks :)
want some video cards? *grin*
heh :) 'twould be nifty,i take it you don't have an r4xx? ;)
if I had one, I wouldn't be giving it to you!
ping
yo,everything is thom's fault.you about?
hey dude,!
and yes, expect it sometime this weekend,at the moment I'm trying to decide if I have enough energy to get out of my seat and climb into bed before I go to sleep, or wether I just doze off in my chair,so yeah, you will soon be the proud owner of an AGP Matrox G400 dual head card
dude! awesome, thanks very much :),heh,red eye is love,night dude, sleep well,heh
you're home I take it? I've still got some bling for you to take over when you visit fabbione, remember?
bling! ;),i'm home, but just about to run out for the night, sadly
ahh fair enuff,then tomorrow sometime
sounds good, cheers :)
you about?
hey yo :)
just got a few things to do, then I can drop them by
nice! well, whenever is fine -- thanks again :)
no probs,all X code is scary..that's why you work with it *grin*
something i did in a previous life?
possibly.. or mebbe in this one
heh.,oh, nice
dsa = authentication algorithm, not encryption
oh, right
btw: I have been reading 'Practical Cryptography' lately.. very good book
Practical, or Applied?
practical..,focuses on building a systemm from scratch, and how they come about the decisions in each case, some with backup methods,just got thru the section on random number generation .. very decent way of explaining it, and how to avoid some of the common pitfalls
nice!
interesting thing with my 1.4 ghz Athlon...
oh?
the nv driver is faster for dvd playback than the binary only driver
ha ha ha :) oh man
so whaddya think? think we could give away 5000 ubuntu cd's at the swapmeets?
don't see why not :),yo
you got your CD's yet?
dunno, I'm not even vaguely close to home.but unimelb has 1000 i386 CDs -- do you want a few?
tis cool.. just wondering where mine have gotten to,but at least 1 of each arch would be nice
unfortunately they only have i386 (they were an early order), but if you go to the new ICT building (on Barry St), and go up to the CSSE (not IS) helpdesk on level 1, you should be able to walk away with i386 Cds
will keep it in mind... mainly want an amd64 cd for myself.. might need it shortly for my new lappy *grin*
heh :)
woo!,amd64 3200+, nvidia chipset, 1G of ram, ATI 9700 Pro w/128M.. not too shabby for a lappy,haven't got it yet tho.. boss wants to buy it, currently waiting on the vendor,hopefully I can get it before xmas *grin*.. then I can get some serious stuff done for warty during my holidays,erm, hoary even
heh, awesome :)
did you break xorg?
yeah
thought so! heh.. so when do we expect a fix?
already uploaded, dude, get with the times :P,(i had *.so modules lying around from a previous install, so it worked for me)
cool. what's the latest xorg now? (just upgrading a box from warty)
6.8.1-1ubuntu8, which is actually the entire 6.8.x branch
hrm.. I just did an update, and the repo's still say -1ubuntu7 is the latest.. doh!,trying to create a dev box.. since I am actually officially on holidays, perhaps I can get some shit done *grin*
yeah, hasn't built on the buildds yet,heh
cool..
heh no, I broke it yesterday
same thing. *grin*,though I knew it was your fault, even without confirmation. you always break it *grin*,you broke xorg again? sheesh!.workaround? where?,affects i386 as well btw, not just amd64
ln -s /usr/X11R6/lib/modules/extensions/libglx.{so,a},yeah, I took lib%s.so out of the search path, not realising that nvidia-glx is rather crackful
aha!,yeah I can imagine.. cool,what should be the destination for that link? cos it doesn't work for the users home dir.
huh?,you need to link libglx.a -> libglx.so within /usr/X11R6/lib/modules/extensions
what time you getting in?
6:20am!  whoo!
heh.. cab from the airport fun eh?
heh, getting picked up, mercifully
gimme that stick.. after what you keep doing to xorg, you deserve a beating from most of us! *grin*
hmmm
hey, you about?
yo
got a weird ass laptop screen for you.. 1440 x 900,warty gets the res right, but of course, there is no mode entries for it.. so it pushes it down the list to 1400 x 1050
hmm ... what sort of chipset?
nvidia GeForce2Go 5200FX
hmm, bong
well mainly just the lcd res is the issue..,currently dual boot so I can check things in XP if necessary
yeah
of course, currently i has warty on it.. going to upgrade to hoary soonish,well I can visit with said lappy too btw
ah yeah, my home situation is a little fluid these days unfortunately
well I'm going to hoary anyway.. would it be worth it to do it via a new install (nothing I need to keep on it) or will a dist-upgrade still provide useful into,doh!.so moved again?
in the middle of doing so, yeah,both would be useful, really
no fun
ah well, it'll be over eventually
I'll try a dist upgrade first.. then if it's still crap, I'll see about doing a new install using the preview
sure, thanks a heap :) probably just needs a wacky modeline
that's what I'm guessing.. 1440 x 900 is the lcd's native res anyway
yeah
got any pointers on what modeline to add? (or even just details on creating said modeline)
no ideas, sorry -- usually the best answer is google,modelines are generally beyond me
ahh well.. pity there isn't a windows prog that you could run and get it to spit out a modeline for the current display settings.any decent local/fast mirrors in au?,upgrading to hoary/xorg, then rerunning 'dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg' fixed it.
ah, rad :),only two on the distro team :)
true.. but jeff is like 1/4 of the distro *grin*,btw: weird thing.. this lappy won't do 60 Hz it seems.. 59 Hz is fine, 60 = no go,so I cooked up a custom modeline and put it in xorg's config
hmmm ... does bumping up your horizsync range by two fix that?
I'll give it a go soon..,I'll give it a go soon..,with the nvidia module loaded, there doesn't seem to be a 1440x900 mode anyway
hmm weird, there should be
GL works with the nvidia module anyway.. *grin*
heh
re: the video on this lappy.. I'm guessing it's probably a rounding problem
yeah,i suspect it'd be fine if you bumped the sync ranges up a bit
just trying that now.... bumped it up from 28-72 to 28-75.. no luck,"Not using mode "1440x900" (no mode of this name)
i assume nvidia is rounding to 56KHz and testing for < 56.ah cock.  if you grep for 1440x900, does it see modes there and throw them away?  or does it really just need a modeline?
ahh hsync out of range..,which is weird.. cos i've got the hsync set for 28-100 atm.is there any way to get extended errors out of xorg? ie: show exactly what hsync it thinks the mode needs? or can I find it in a file?
not really, you just have to look at all the log stuff associated with mode validation and guess from there,nv might be silently throwing the mode away itself, of course :\
not nv, nvidia
oh, right,both pieces ;)
I actually got the orig modeline for that from running xorg with nv then using xvidtune to print out the current modeline *grin*
heh :),nvidia's probably doing its own crackful mode validation
what if I turn off DPMS (it's set currently),edid is curring it back to 29-55
Option "IgnoreEDID" IIRC,maybe Option "NoDDC"
and i can tell you now.. 1440 x 900 @ 60 hz is about 56 Khz
but you should be able to work just fine without the modes in there at all
yup.. 1440x900@60 = 55.92 Khz, 106.47 Mhz,btw: useful modeline gen: http://www.sh.nu/nvidia/gtf.php,sounds like it,cool.. I'll try the IgnoreEDID option and set the sync to 29-56
or 57 might be needed
well gotta start somewhere
afaict the standard mode validation stuff should validate anything above 56.56MHz, so it looks like an nVidia problem
horizsync 29-57 works,aha.. Default mode "1440x900": 108.8 MHz, 56.9kHz, 60.2 Hz.want me to report the bug somewhere with some logs of working and failing?
that'd be great, thanks :),ah, so we just need a modeline,if you drop it on our bugzilla, with the modeline you worked out, and assign it to xserver-xorg, i'll fix it for 6.8.2-5, which should happen tonight or tomorrow
no modeline needed anymore btw. just HorizSync 29-57, and IgnoreEDID,I'll get onto the bugzilla stuff now,#7732,anyway for the moment I'm happy.. scorched3d works.. *grin*
heh, rad :) chers dude.which 55.9xKHz modeline did you come up with?,if you drop me the exact modeline, then I can include it in our stock set, and that should get rid of the problem
but that was for 59 Hz refresh
oh, right ... hm
but sure, I can add that to the bugilla entry
ta
there is one in there for 60.2 (the default one).. but the EDID thing blocks it
right
and the default xorg line is exactly that mode
for me, it was module load order; ide-generic was getting loaded but not ide-ck804 or whatever it is,try throwing amd74xx in /etc/modules before ide-generic
I',I'll give it a shot..,basically can't turn on dma on my dvd writer in the dual AMD64 *sigh*
yeah, i had the same problem with my amd64
I've got a LOT of small things for Hoary+1.. small fixes and suggestions.. like: default ext3 options for normal installs to boost the number of reboots before an fsck,oh, and getting rid of inetd (I'm working on exactly how to do it properly)
cool
you're going to ubutnu down under I assume?
yeah, fo'sho
*grin*,about to get 4 weeks off.. 1 week doing nothing, 1 week at lca, 1 week at UDU, and 1 week doing nothing.. and with my new lappy, I now can actually build stuff without waiting a month
hhe, nice :) sounds awesome.  amd64 laptop, I assume?
unfortunately not.. P4 3.2 Ghz HT,cost me $0, so I'm not complaining too much
heh
nVidia GeForceFX 5200.. 1440 x 900 screen (grr!),btw: the AMD64 now has DMA! yay!
ah, word :)
hotplug is a pain.. 3 network cards in that machine.. one of them randomly becomes eth0, even though I added modprobe aliases
bleh
so now the first ethernet driver is in /etc/modules too *grin*,now to try and burn something.. *grin*.so, who should I eventually poke about getting a package moved from universe to main?
which package?
winbind
dunno, you'll have to find someone to stand up and support it
tends to be useful if you want to run a samba server and auth against a windows PDC,might have to chat to whoever maintains samba
basically, my position on dualhead stuff is that we should never ask a question during install unless we're doing some amazing crap that is impossible to auto-detect,this means a single head; dualhead is out of scope for installer stuff, and perfectly in scope for an (as-yet-unwritten) userspace x configuration tool.output of xresprobe nv?,.. no
when I remove the monitor settings (HorizSync and VertRefresh) from the XF86Config, it works.
is this a fresh install? if so, how fresh?
I installed it last night
people still have those? :P
I  have one :P,I'm sure bruce would also give you an account
hm, true dat,reckon he'd give me his machine for a few days? :)
heh, possibly, maybe if you put him in stasis,woo X tried to make my 15" monitor run at 1024x768 at 75Hz
sensational.er, what?,please email the output of ddcprobe to daniel@the.real.fooishbar.org
sent
don't forget to come to luv,'uninformed'
if I was misinformed it was other people's fault :)
yeah,not really.  it will probably be sorta parallelish.
?
one of the plans raised at matar was having grumpy as a 'crack of the day' suite, building from upstrema cvs and stuff


contrary to convention, the livecd contains the entire desktop install ;)
is that a 'can someone?'
fabbione: that's "has anyone tried..." :-),me might split off a developer channel if it gets too crowded, eyah
i installed 20040913 earlier.. worked like a charm
thanks!,that's task listy kind of stuff,there'll be a proper webpage that most people will look at :)
yup cool. thought I'd just mention that since I just noticed it,heh.. I've gave daniels a number of video cards last night.. he and fabbione will have lots of cards to hack on,we need an infobot, damnit!
i think we do, yeah
we nee to make all the driver manufacturers walk the plank like the scurvy dogs they are!.. Aaarrrrr!
AHR!
heh.. pcm-352?
hrm?
model number of the card,just don't expect the kernel driver to handle the card disconnecting and reconnecting,as in removal and reinsertion
oh? really?,LET'S SEE ABOUT THAT
depends on the card,the card I have dies (not predictable).. just depends what the kernel is doing at the time
no problems ;-),sounds like he's talking about gnome, not ubuntu.
so where are you? have you hit victoria yet?
flying down this afternoon
cool.. want to speak first, or later?
whichever gives me enough time for talk+questions :)
heh.. ok.. well of course if the other speaker is late, that throws it out the window.. but I'll see what I can do,cya tonight.I've got ideas for t-shirts banging around in my head.. whom should I fire them at?
we're going to have an... ahem... tshirt competition soon.
heh.. ok.. I'll just work on it myself and see what I can come up with,btw: what's the ubuntu font actually called? (the one in the logo?)
not entirely sure, i will ask
you need a page explaining the legend of no pants,see, we even have content for said page!,btw: we have a problem with warty. Frozen Bubble is not installed by default! How can this be? How the hell are we going to get Linus using Ubuntu if Frozen Bubble isn't installed by default? *grin*
i think we'd ship monkey-bubble...,too many games in the menu already.
that'd do! *grin*,just need to cull some
actually, we have a recipe for doing all our current arches on a single dvd :),doing the right thing on boot, etc. :)


... next release will have a gui installer :)
but it won't necessarily be the only option. :).who are responsible for our kernel images?
mdz/herbert
thanks.  Would anybody scream too much if I uploaded amd64 kernels, you think?
built from that source?
basically, what's in the archive today + bd_claim patch.,no, detach + reattach fixes it as well
no, only ntpdate
ook,if you could get an nforce3 board, it would be interesting -- we need to weed that SATA+nf3 bug out before release.,or if you could get me one, of course. ;)
not sure i have the bling handy ;)
amd64 boxes are _cheap_,that as well.
(mmm, legal not license)
mea culpa..uploading rc bugfixes is ok now, right?
with confirmation
from you or mdz, right?,http://raw.no/patches/loudmouth-0.17.1-amd64.diff ; tested on AMD64 and i386.
bug#?
1442,the comment in it is wrong, obviously, since I haven't uploaded, but I forgot procedure, mea culpa,does that mean "please upload" in australian? ;).prod?
pong
01:17 < Mithrandir> jdub: does that mean "please upload" in australian? ;)
yes.didn't i write 'upload approved'?,oh, that was, "it's cool for setting the bug status",then i commented on the bug,heh
I don't have any boxes running without EVMS, I think.,he's a bit far away, I don't think norse gods has much power on that side of the earth.  It's the underside, see? ;),sounds nice.  But I want nice and cozy ubuntu t-shirts and sweaters.
there's going to be a comp! :).does it run like poo?
nope, runs well,because my time is not unlimited. :),you need to call dmsetup with the correct arguments.
g-v-m could detect an encrypted block device?,or hal, really
hal, possibly, yes.  But then it needs a small bit of love, I guess.. you can extend the things it broadcasts over the dbus without breaking anything, right?
yeah,but you probably wouldn't have to
the mounter would need to know keysize, cipher type and such as well, though,"incidentially". ;),you crazzy person. ;),put .ICEauthority in skel would be an obvious (but a bit ugly) solution.
no, it seems to chown the users existing .ICEauthority
it actually chowns it?  That sounds just broken.
that's what i'm doing ;)
dev=ATAPI:0:1:0 or something, I think.
mm, tried dev=ATAPI, but get:
try cdrecord dev=ATAPI -scanbus?,it's supposed to work that way, but I can't check, I don't have any IDE burners. :)
it's fb, but text.,you are wrong.,(and, FWIW, Kamion and joeyh agree with me, they have a bit of d-i experience as well)
: glad to here that!,: we can device a test plan carfeully test every code branching
realistically, I don't think that's very feasible.  You'll get _a lot_ of tests.
: are you at work or something?? 500kB/sec ???!! The best we can get here is around 3MB download, that is mega BITS
university network.
: it's lucky if I get to download something in 92k bytes per second.
I have a 2.4-3Mbit at home..il is isreal, isn't it?,s/Debian/Ubuntu/, basically
: oh
isolinux should work with scsi, but some motherboards doesn't like it.
is there more information on thaT?
I don't have a link about it no, sorry.
au is broken :(
that's why you should run rsync with --partial


ironically there's nothing wrong with the hardware per se- it boots other CDs fine,yeah,no,it causes hardware to reboot before anything,kernel never loads,yeah it's a goat problem.what should I file it against?,will ubuntu have dualhead support? (afaik it hasn't got it at the moment),I mean eventually.. obviously it's not going to happen overnight,heh
you can do dualhead, but there isn't a nice configuration thingy for it yet :),without DAMAGE, yes :-),that's kind of bad,windows can't cover the panels
if you alt-drag, it's not possible to put the title of the window outside the screen
well, oss emulation is *meant* to be there by default,a few people have mentioned that it wasn't on their installs,we're using alsa but with oss emulation (it tends to be more stable than current attempts to use alsa directly),currently testing coaster, which may go straight to hoary.
excellent,try forcing the device,yeah try using device=mmc_cdr
yeah? ick.
surely there's a web page with the archives of the3.2 billion arguments this has already caused?,do you know how well/not well spatial works for people who heavily nest data
not good for people really heavily nest data; it depends on the depth,come to HrdwrBoB's for KVM action! ;)
heh yes :),back in the day when you could sell an 8port KVM+cables for $1800AU
*cough*.didn't you say you were getting married on the 25th or so?,i'm on the 17th ;).where are you doing the deed?
st kilda foreshore, follow by reception in the 'royce' hotel,is everything organised for yours? damn there's a lot of stuff to do
kinda. sorta. not really. yeah. ;)
the ipod shuffle has less features and more cost and no redeeming UI features that make it better than a random flash ,payer off ebay, it's not a patch on a real ipod </end rant>
i gotta admit, i love the idea ;),they're pretty cheap for 1GB solid state
xresprobe ati,id: SAMSUNG,res: 1280x1024 1024x768 800x600 640x480 1792x1344,freq: 30-85 50-160,and yes, I'm running 1792x1344
that's been a per hate of mine for ages
I filed a bug in debian asking for an option to fix that....which rev of X?
whatever the latest is, let me check
it was a discussion item
hey?
hrm... that could really mess up ocean currents.  And if you goof, we spiral into the sun. Maybe not a good plan... :-),blame the train operators for timezones,but it's getting _BOORING___


Version: 4.3.0.dfsg.1-6ubuntu14,mga,id: DELL P1110,res: 1600x1200 1152x864 1024x768 800x600 720x400 640x480 1800x1440,freq: 30-121 48-160,I pissed off the gf2mx and put ye olde trustworthy g400 in it.is it supposed to force agp 1x?
The application is irssi.
oh.. heh.. a lot of other people also use that,in what direction
I would like it not to be occupying the left third of my screen, as per the screenshot...
just rsync or nfs /var/cache/apt/archives
with the mirror already working, why bother? I don't have any personal investment in making sure that ubuntu.com has a match in my /etc/apt/sources.list
Does anyone else use "screen" inside a gnome-terminal?
as we speak,no idea, I haven't seen it..is screen running locally or remotely?
Remotely.
same here.. I haven't seen it.,though, my remote box is running debian unstable, not warty, no idea if that matters.
It's one of those "uh... yeah, interesting bug, I don't believe you!" bugs that I'm always reluctant to file.,Remote is debian testing.
no idea.. that works just fine here, and has been for a long time.
and that killed all the menus and buttons did it?
hmm, no, buttons and stuff was fine.
I mean *totally* blank, as in "not rendering"


I really need to run irssi remotely, otherwise you can see me rejoin every half an hour.,Because every half an hour, I need to reboot on this to make the wireless card work.,Well yeah, but I don't think my usage of it is that unusuall.,I press ^P and ^N to switch windows, I type in the box.
oh, rad. is this the blue thing, or different?
The entire gnome-terminal stops rendering and chews 100% CPU for about 30 seconds.,And once it starts doing that, it will do it about every third time someone says something until I completely restart g-t.
right-click on the panel, choose preferences
I can't,the icons are so big they take up the whole panel.,I left click anywhere, I open an app,I right-click anywhere, I get the context menu *for the icon*
hm.  even when you right-click on applications, or something?
that menu has its own context menu, yes.,Help, Remove from panel, Lock to panel
worst-case scenario is going into gconf-editor, apps->panel->toplevels->top_panel; change size to 32 and orientation to top
I think I might have to go that way.,when *every pixel* of a panel is occupied with an icon, it seems like you lose the panel's own context menu.
right, which is arse
I filed bug 5735 against it.,I hope seb128 doesn't ignore it, I break gnome every time I touch it.
heh
as for this "my mouse cursor goes crazy when I first touch my touchpad" thing, ever heard of that?,ah cool, you saved a useless bug :),who is the fastest draw on nickserv kill, that's the question...


:)
not to mention runtime conditions such as system load, amount of free ram, hard drive space, file system layout, the colour of the neighbour's cat and not to forget the phase of the moon. :)
any fixes from the one built on saturday ?
for start, you could complain to your ISP and tell them to buy more bandwidth from their upstream (which I happen to work for ;-)
: Global ONe?,: AT&T ? :),: funny enough, the ISP has nothing to do with it. They're the coolest ISP here in israel, however in order to give you cable broadband, they MUST relay on the cable company infrastructure, and those guys, they SUCK BIGTIME
ah, I see... it's the final piece of wire that sucks... oh well
BTW : do we need a ubuntu hebrew translator?.or is there someone already on this?.: which one do you work for?


I'm using the tries and tested "glass and a piece of paper" technique,and I'm left with that great problem, do I (a) shut all the windows and die from the heat or (b) open them, and let all the flying beasties back in
c) buy an airconditioner
it's very tempting, our summers are just getting cruel these days :-/
either express or implied
I used to do that, but I found that I've basically restricted myself to two-levels now automatically,it wasn't a deliberate change, I've just subconciously started just doing it
interesting,I might use nautilus more
: it is?,: well, consider the VAST (and I mean that) distants you have there, you have an exucse..What about israel? a country the size of NYC ? what's our excuse ? :))
I got a flyer in my mailbox, $80/month for 2gb.,also, vast distances, but almost the entirety of the population is fairly closely living in the capital cities,they're in the wiki,options, default zoom,this was covered recently, check out the mailing list
: i had that problem also..: same here. could the 2 sound cards config be the trigger?


your seasons are broken,july/august is when it rains :)
except in Melbourne, where it rains every month,I was looking at LAM, but unfortunately it's not in ubuntu or debian it seems.. (and no, there is lam3, which is something entirely different)
irritatin
ahh seems ldap-account-manager is in universe.. w00t!,I just couldn't be arsed screwing around with samba/ldap to get something that worked.. this should make it a lot easier, and then I can tell the consultant guy we have to leave me alone,this one is apparently trying to buy into the company,well I'll let you know how things go.. nfi if lam really works for anything other than samba.. but I can only look and see
cool cheers
new mail servers are all ready bar actual deployment and the ldap db setup.. so yeah.. now just considering if I should re-install them with ubuntu instead of testing.. *grin*
:),I'm highly likely to install ubuntu on our new server
the main issue is: do I want to go thru and reinstall them? (ie: effort),seems mako doesn't.. in the CD news thingy he put the url http://shipit.ubunutlinux.org/ .. doh!
ick,hm, it appears as though nothing much works with SCSI in ubuntu :D,though the drive loaded, and there's a disc in it, 'device manager' sees it,it was never added to /etc/fstab,etc
we don't mess with /etc/fstab
yeah but it wasn't detected at install
so you have a SCSI device present, but you installed to a non-SCSI device?,file a Severity: enhancement bug against debian-installer.snd-pcm-oss is loaded?
and we went through and worked out that eepro100 was excessive,the bug doesn't infact say how to do that, all that's mentioned of the blacklist is at the end where you posted your changelog
I added an explicit note to the end of the bug when I pasted the URL
so you did, I see it now
Quarupt easy, folks.  There's no need to argue about it here; as I said, there's plenty of information out there if anyone is curious,entirely
there are debs, but they are out of date with the current debian stuff, and they're also just of 6.7.0,look for post-warty movement
thanks.is it supposed to be in main/universe?
should be in universe, but it might be contrib
ya think? I like it small like that,its more void filling than distracting I think...if someone had an ubuntu question I'm sure the subject matter would shift
just testing?
any kind of testing is important
: ok, I have today's daily downloading and I am going to install a simple router system..Guess I am going to test the "Custom" seed
enter your password,yes,no, dailys are not sounders
: for serving the testing best, would you recommend testing a daily or the sounder 8 ?
both?,but usually after 1 or 2 days a sounder is released, you should go for dailys
: k, sounds fair enough
you could take the challenge to do it :-),like getting in input a .deb or a list of debs,well.. if i will tell you i will spoil the fun of it :-)
: you are more than right! spare me those, and i shall be back with mastery :-))
they are on the CD... just find them :)
: k, i'll give it a look and take tries at that.
only if there was a mistake somewhere.. but yes it can happen
: actually i havn't check the woody src pkg changlog, maybe it's there...
DSA are only registered in stable
: most of them. the version format (3.6.2-2.2) number reported to be fixed, appears only on the woody src pacakge.,: question, how do i reason a conclusion for the sid pkg...,:nm. managed.
yes. higher versions are supposed to have the security fix in
: i know. however everytime i bump into something not explicitly apparent, i stress a bit ;)
no need to panic
: can I come? :-)
hehehe,not yet :-)
: boy, ain't she a beauty?.: you like blondes?


the new init stuff is ugly as sin if you're not on the console :(
: you don't get to see nothing if you're not at the console. only some ubuntu artwork and a progress bar
no, he's asleep
: i try 'aptitude show tomcat4' that's my output = 'Package: tomcat4.: if the package is there, should it show me it's desc?,: also, chcked the *Packages files, and tomcat4 is only suggested by another pkg.
no idea sorry, I've never used aptitude
: same for apt, could you run over your machine tell me the output?.: here?
about?
still around?,i, also known as Lolo, is the Sino-Tibetan language used by aboriginal people of south-west China.,i don't have that font either,i'm going to run out now, but tomorrow you should explain to me why you want/need aboriginal sino-tibetan script :)
nfc why - was just noticing lots of square boxes in my spam subject lines...,looks good.does the sounders list get seeded into any of the ubuntu-* lists?  or do we need to have a subscription fest?
i think we already HAD a subscription fest :)
but we're not on ubuntu-{devel,users}?  Just trying to figure out what I should go sub to, and what I'm already on...
no way! 
I think you owe corbet a beer, eh?.you still left coast?  or somewhere that it's a decent hour of the morning?


good to be back in the bandwidth game!
still in .za or back in .uk again?,interesting that that doesn't apply for 0% though ...,they go deaf..or turn it on if they want to?,playing a sound and checking the volume,yeah, but then you find someone who it's not only a good default but destroys their system ... and you find a nice lawsuit on your desk the next morning :-/
why does dhcp client need to listen?
the little battery charge goes down?
some people like a huge green thing
yeah, but if you've got a huge draining green thing, you shouldn't have an identical smaller, upright version of it next to it,depends; if they never opened the "Change Desktop Background" dialog then they'll get the new default background,I actually asked my next-door neighbours about that ... they didn't think they'd have a problem with things just being installed, as long as they weren't forced to look at them.what about /usr/share/pixmaps/splash/ubuntu-logo-508x340.png ?
perhaps, with tweaks
I tend to agree with jdub here ... there's little reason to ship more than one splash screen as they're a bugger to change
it could also be automatically installed when you install the calendar desktop
would change it for everyone, not just those that select the calendar theme
common case is one user per machine
find /path -type d -exec "test -f {}/*.orig" \; -print 2>/dev/null,mine prints out the directory trees with .orig files in it, __daniel's is probably closer to "exit 0 if there's a .orig here",test -z $(find /path -name "*.orig" -or -name "*.rej" -print)
that exits 0 if there are NO files, 1 if there are?
coward ;)
LC_ALL=C   gconftool-2  -R /desktop/gnome/url-handlers/http  needs_terminal = false, command = mozilla-firefox %s, enabled = true,care to fix it? :P,tell mark to fix it faster then ;-),heh
what's the deal with sound on the X40?
you should have snd_8x0m loaded
snd_intel8x0?.and... what's the plan to make it *just work*?
70% on my desktop will just about bounce a monitor off my desk,or use the wiki page referenced in the bug
what's the best way to disable most of the screensavers?
no idea, am justa bout to look into it,i take it that the list already on the bug is that same as the one you had in mind? (for .xscreensaver)
not quite, i've tuned to include some newer ones.looks like we need to update /etc/X11/app-defaults/XScreenSaver-gl right?
already uploaded,i'm concerned about the number of GL screensavers you have in the current list. they will look awful without acceleration...
list is complete now
... as awful as its online mode?,too south african :-)
samba?.stable? fast?
as fast as it's ever been :-),about the same state as Colin, here.
i thought you were the "powernowdude"
it's not, here. un  mozilla-browse <none>         (no description available).yo?,*g*,might want to +m whilst you lay out details
ok, just for five minutes
i think the real issues are that corporates will not set it, but simply not use it,you can clear your mind of flaccid penises, we've fixed that ;-P


ok, think about this,it could only destroy their system if they've hooked it up to something through line-out,and then hooked that up to speakers that cannot handle it,100% output from the soundcard is the same as 100% from a CD line-out,so then, if they plugged in a CD to the line-out, and played it, it would blow their system,now, i don't think anyone would believe it was a reasonable claim if you setup your amp so stupidly, then plugged in a CD.why can underpowering be bad?,and a CD in this case is no different to Warty
CD players have well-defined output levels.  Sound cards don't.,a bit too long, I think.  63 chars max.
great work
what does /etc/alternatives/x-www-browser point to?
/usr/bin/mozilla


please unmount it before by right-clicking on the device in the Computer window,of course you can also pumount it by hand
or mdz cn you tell seb128 that smb bug in gnome browsing is at least reolved :) ?
hi
what do you want to test with the last pcmcia-cs ? Because i'v an external DD SATA on pcmcia
the previous version created device nodes on its own, which badly interfered with udev. Nodes were created, removed, and created again, removed again, and so on,thus the device appeared as steadily unplugged and replugged,essentially the pcmcia packages should just behave as before, without stopping to work in general,so if you don't notice any difference, it's fine :-),fine, thanks!


yoseb,haven't had time :|,i was going to explain ti all, but i'll just send you a layout instead 
do we have sanity happening ?
not really,no it's not,it's previewing part of the applet we don't turn on
how?
Appearance > Show battery status,those prefs are buggy, click a couple of times
we still on today?
hrm, kinda prefer not unless we have an agenda,going full steam ahead, don't really want much distraction atm (apart from my lappy arriving, but playing with that will also involve serious testing, yes, uh huh)
where are the debs ?
haven't really got a sensible place to upload them,might put them on my gnome.org repo in the mean time,that's just a bug :),and unrelated, silly mans ;)
so, can I congratulate you on a release now ?
not me, the team.what's this for?
the ssl certificate is wrong on bugzilla
oh, just UNKONWN,but it's already reported
mdz asked for a bug to be filed.oh, reminds be, bluetooth luv ?
see -devel,no
do I need to restart anything after installing your bluetooth packages ?.?
yeah?,oh,no,look in system tools
ah. devices works..so di dyou rebuild phone manager + multisync too ?.what did you need to do to configure polypaudio ?,going to put paman in universe too ? (polypaudio manager)
wtf?! :)
?
south american....,d'oh.nforce3 based?
ack
bug Mithrandir :)
^^^^ can you forward to the right folk please? I'm dead in the water.who runs ou rplanet ?
cron.
is gnome-phonemgr in hoary ?
not yet,it'll be in universe probably


ok,I want a NEEDINFO state in bugzilla,seriously, my list of bugs is full of bugs waiting for informations,rhythmbox crash is from you IIRC
isn't there one already?!
for GNOME yes, for warty no


from the wiki :" You can run programs as root with sudo, for example: sudo apt-get update,",it doesn't work.,i have to set up a root password before,which would enable the root account.you mean regular user password?
yes,eject umounts for you.
: you mean they already use it in windows?
nautilus-cd-burner and cdrecord.right clicking on an iso image and clicking write to cd is unintuitive?
: what's m3us ?
a running joke, but also the mp3 playlist file format,yes
: i know what u'r tlking about,: they are buggy all the way from startup to me,: yeah, i suppose so. anyways i'll test tommorow after I get my AC adaptor...: have you done any excess configs for it to work?,: i heared germen dudes use that for cool :)
no, there's linux-restricted modules with the nvidia module in
: targetted at the waty shipped kenrels?
it'd be pretty silly otherwise, wouldn't it? :-)
from the wiki :" You can run programs as root with sudo, for example: sudo apt-get update,",it doesn't work.,i have to set up a root password before,which would enable the root account.you mean regular user password?
yes
: i thought it needs the root password
you only have one password, the system ask for a password ... give this one :)
: is it some sudo workaround? or it's default behavior regardless the distro it's on?


did the bugzilla bug i filed seem reasonable?
which one was that, the assign-to-self one?
yes
what would be involved in getting postfix on macquarie to not rewrite the From: lines on the email Bugzilla sends?
YAY!!!!!,you need to style the pulldown menus, they look awful right now
can probably fix the certificate
being able to click anywhere on the bug in the search page would be nice, too,that stylesheet needs to push everything much further off the left hand border of the browser


er,i can't file a bug with bugzilla because my mouse doesn't work right now, but could someone please file a critical bug on pfaedit,given that it currently only contains /usr/share/doc/pfaedit,assign it to me,er, nevermind,hm. fontforge conflicts/replaces pfaedit, but doesn't provide a pfaedit binary,BONG,(exhibit one: michael jackson)
goes on to die at the next zebra crossing </obscure hhgtg reference>
i was making the same reference
my vnc cpu usage issue makes using VNC almost entirely pointless as it grinds the whole thing to a halt - should I file a bug or ...?
tempting to say 'don't do that, then',and your monitor advertises 1280x960 as well, god knows how it deals with that,i mean, we do n-1 so people have a good-looking display, but we really can't protect against monitors blatantly lying
where's the fruitfucker? :)
the iBook I had during lca was fruitfucker2000, actually,so, I was standing in some homewares shop in Brunswick St, and I saw a Fruit Reamer, that was blurbing about how good it could ream the pulp
ehehehe
hm, should be quicker from fooishbar.got somewhere I can scp it to?


managed to get the iBook installed by pointing it at the network archive since it wouldn't keep the cdrom mounted.,which went fine until I logged into gdm...  bunches of errors from X about the XKB configuration
most of your bugs seemed to stem from the WEP thing; FYI, booting with DEBCONF_PRIORITY=high should work around that
if I want to file a test bug with the existing unmodified reportbug, is there a package I can report against that nobody will yell at me for filing a test bug in?
350 MB disk for custom install, 1.8 GB for normal desktop install,depends what fails,that'd be my strong suspicion too.
tried to manually edit a ext3 partition, choose new size. waited 10 secs. (partition is with bas install only) come back to partitons data, see partition size unchanged. bug?,part size was = 939MB,new size requested = 539MB
you try with d-i 
do we have right-click unmounting (context menu from the icon of whatever it is that's mounted)?
yes, we have,but, that's still pretty obscure
2.6.9-rc1-mm1 works fine with usb bluetooth, usb mass storage (iriver, media reader, digicam, notebook cradle thingy), keyboard/mouse, et al,but that's not our kernel, so ymmv
I'll try,but this happened also with 2.6.7,agreed,sleep well,see the mailing list. Right now nothing changed yet,but thom and I currently handle the "just rip it off" case,which should actually work not too badly,unless, of course, there are still processes that want to write to the device. These are lost, but we cannot help that
how do we choose which uid to mount dynamic devices under?
the uid that calls the pmount program,i. e. the user that is logged in
is it a laptop or a desktop lcd?
desktop
please send me the full output of ddcprobe
I sent all the debugging stuff to you
could you please run sh -x /usr/share/xresprobe/ddcprobe.sh
I did,shall I mail or send with IRC? (never done this, though)
oh, must have missed that, sorry,mail is fine
daniel@fooishbar.org, right?
yep!
it's away
cheers dude
well, dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xfree86 does the trick, but a fully automatic install would rock :-),sorry for the late report, I could not try warty on my desktop untily recently,because it was broken :-(
ahr :\
gar.so a little more sed and cut magic?
what happens if you replace all the calls to sort -nr, in ddcprobe.sh, with sort -nrtx?
mdz: but will this really succeed every time?
i hope so, because we're sol if we need anything mroe
I did that, but what should actually change?,xresprobe output is still the same,it still does not contain 1280x1024
gah :\
maybe we sould sort for the maximum product of the two numbers,wait
yeah?
I did not replace the sort -unr calls.shall I?,I just did, does not help
does http://fooishbar.org/daniel/xresprobe/ddcprobe.sh work?,if you dump that into /usr/share/xresprobe
403
fixed
still 403
?!?
I can't help it; tried it from two different hosts,you can also mail it to me (martin@piware.de)
try that?
try what? its still 403 and I don't have mail
um, i don't see any requests in my logs
it WORKS!
... sigh
well, there are a lot of duplicates,but at least 1280x1024 is present now.but what does the sort -unrtx do there?
you have mail,it means that forgot to put a pipe in because I'm an idiot
better,still some dups,and the sort order is incorrect,however, at least all resolutions appear now
you've got mail
worse.another pipe?,I added the pipe, but it does not work. Wait...
biff
same thing,line 61 misses a |,and has a double sort,with the fixed one:,still wron sort order and dups,I would like to give you a shell on my box, but I'M behind a nat,poing
guh!
what was this klingon thingy 'guh'?
'guh' basically means 'crap'
too late for the preview anyway,now we've got a month to get it right :-)
heh,ping,finally fixed
# xresprobe nv,Congrats!
thanks :),i'll upload once it's settled down a little bit
can you please upload it an hour ago? :-/
heh,expect 0.4.7 to hit in about 18h with that fix,thanks for your help
well, you did the actual work on it. ,thanks.if people install with network, they should actually get it, right?
in 18h ;)
of course, but after this.,would be a pity if they got wrong X configuration
fo'sho
= "for sure"?
yah,hello!,new radeon driver, http://people.ubuntu.com/~daniels/xorg/radeon_drv.o,should work with just plain usefwpll -- please try various combinations of that and usefbdev,might make things better, hopefully shouldn't make anything worse,Option "DynamicClocks" will also give you a shitload of battery life,maybe forcing Option "MonitorLayout" "LVDS,CRT" (or maybe TMDS,CRT) will let you hotplug a monitor,so yeah, give that a play and drop me a /msg (so it doesn't get lost in scrollback) with any feedback :) hopefully the new fwpll stuff (pulls values for the second pll also) works good,01:07 < elmo> mdz: svn co http://mg.pov.lt/gtimelog/svn/ gtimelog
although it is Sunday morning here :-)
i'm vaguely here
hmm, yes, that would mean linux-kernel-di would build-dep on the restricted modules, yuck.[Clint] : we were just talking about the upgrade tool; let's discuss it on the sounder list later?,[Clint] : (you are subscribed to the sounder list, right?),ooh, that sounds nice
is gnome-gpg no longer in supported?
it never was; definitely not supported-worthy yet
ok, thanks,wifi applet gives strange mousover messae when wifi signal is gone
don't like that? (it's a string change...),no percentages is hard to do with the battery applet,unless we show the graph + icon
graph being the big green monster?
yes 8),the power state icon gives no indication of time remaining,icons on the desktop does not imply dragging to the trash :)
understood, nonetheless, we've already had this discussion for warty
this is not important enough to write code or diverge for
i understand it's not great for warty,for hoary, we will have split out translations, so they can continue to be improved post-release
yeah, that'd be nice.
is that font tech open source?
they're considering some kind of release
any benefit to gnome-alsamixer?
no, it's gross,2.10 will have a shiny new mixer
ok, take your word for it :-)
i've reopened that bug suggesting we have the on-disk page for Final - do you want to do that?.perhaps they should be the same thing?,i suggested to mdz that we put that content in ubuntu-artwork,for easy branding and so on,simply embedding a browser is not very hard (yelp will use gecko soon), but trying to build a proper, full-featured browser around it is a bit hard, requires lots of integration work, etc.,i think the better strategy would be to improve on what epiphany has already managed to achieve,every widget in the browser pane is rendered using the same system xul is,xul is just glorified xml+html+javascript,whether you're using firefox or ephiphany, you're using xul
dude, xul will never be as slick for menus, dialogs etc as native
if you mean not having exactly the same behaviour, that's definitely true,that was the intention, yeah,makes sense to lump it in with the gnome goal, given their timeline,and choosing it as the default
lulu' got steam coming out of her ears, i must apologise profusely for distracting you from the production of her content
yeah, grinding down the list :)
seb128: is the panel colour the same as the menu colour when you set background to "None (use system theme)"?
yes, same colour,the whole panel/launcher/applet model needs to be overhauled. that's a large job that will require a lot of thought and prototyping.
ok, we'll leave that to the guru's and go with the flow, i'm just thinking tweaks and polish here
not sure there's much value in going beyond upstream incremental changes unless we move on that
all i'd like to get is a slightly more polished look that ties into the desktop colour system more naturally
hrm. i think we can pull off a few tricks in that respect. :-),remind me about it post-release, trying to keep my mind of this stuff. :-),or, file a bug on me! :),oh, post-preview,well, i would like to *think* about it post-preview, but it's not necessarily warty material. :)
good timing, we just got slashdotted ;-)
bonus.how's everything holding up?
well so far,battery applet is looking schweet thanks to james h
what changed?,so now we have rad battery, rad wifi... only the sound needs radding ;),mail for you on sounder,try me.is this on rince?
yes
i'm logged in, want me to look at it?,you realise rince is our list server, right? :),*fear*,i'll have a look :-).can you quit out of aptitiude/apt/whatever?,i'm locked out
done
should be going now
how would you feel about a switch to grub and kernel 2.6 on that box?
can you touch the box within 1 minute of where you're sitting?,that's an easy one, then ;-),unless you've got really great on-site support people,who can fix it
problem is, the lilo config is out of date, so if it resets itself I don't know it will come up anyway
even more reason to avoid it ;).prefer not, but what's the on-site support like atm?,if there's someone there who can baby it, then it's not too scary
is the gnome splash screen supposed to hang around after login?
no, that's a very hard to track down session bug.can you mail me your ~/.gnome2/session file?
2nd mail should have it
evo will soon have a thingy to warn you about no attachments if you've mentioned attachments ;)
sheesh, you;d think they'd already have that in "mail" too :-)
ping
pong.ping?
u-a has never had sabrina in it,i'm a little concerned about the calendar images being installed by default. they're a cool feature for people to find out about and play with, but installed (even if not on) by default is a bit hairy in some environments. all the kids will switch to the nudie photos, etc... ;),they could be in ShipSeed instead of DesktopSeed (so they're not installed on disk unless you actively choose to),subtle midpoint that was missed on the wiki: 'on by default' vs. 'installed by default' vs. 'on the cd',i think it would be unfortunate to have derivatives made solely due to inadequacies in ubuntu itself (lame i18n, unfortunate choice of artwork, etc). that just dilutes ubuntu, without having a really good reason for the derivative.
greatest common factor inevitably implies a certain amount of lowest common denominator, and derivatives are our way of breaking free of that
sure, but derivatives should be picking bigger fights.,for instance, if a derivative (with the same goals as the general ubuntu) is made for a region just because we don't include five well integrated pacakges, that's lame.
even if those packages are only applicable in that country? disagree
if we switch the splash back to the ubuntu logo, i don't think it's worth bothering shipping alternative splashes, until perhaps hoary (when it might be part of the gnome metatheme).,that's doable, but additional complexity, and requires the user to reconfigure the splash manually to choose the 'calendar' version
gconftool call on calendar artwork postinst, surely?
that means changing the default for all users when installing that package. not good.,that may be the common case, but it's very un-golden-rule to change everyone's default when installing a package,we should remove all flags, and avoid things like the bouncing cow and 'flaccid penis' in the screensavers. 'common sense' approach, basically.,i have a little desktop icon for running it, which changes the icon and label and stuff :),i'll send it to ubuntu-users
i855crt?
yeah
thanks will try when i can find a projector
good interview in mail&guardian, btw
missed that one, url?
ulimit -c unlimited,then run the program,ulimit -a should tell you the state of core file size limit on the first line
network issues?
first day of classes, network explodes.,im not in front of my ubuntu box? :),replied too
I have had an xdaliclock counting down for a couple of days
cool,i didn't know you were in la
will have been a year soon
nifty,we were out there for a week in july during the 4th
I was trying to.pushing 55mbps from where?
im using phorum at work, its somewhat hackable,i like it, but dono if its full of cross-site issues or not or not :),yeah, my test box only has 1gb of memory,would have to steal from someone to get more
isn't there a cool way to detect the eject button and unmount after it?,yes,but,,desktop eject icons for every device automounted,not in the computer window, it would get lost for new peoplel,or "Computer"->"Media",(reverted back to it from "Computer")
then follow up pitti's upcoming mail to the list, please,aieee, alps,i don't know if that still needs a kernel patch or not, but last i saw, it did
: huh?
last i saw, the kernel needed a patch to meaningfully talk to alps touchpads
: i used a modconf insertion, when it still worked :),: it has a kernel module
so it works with current warty kernels? what did you have to insert?,yeah, but i'm not sure if that's in the mainline kernel yet
: i'd test that on the warty. havn't yet done so...
which kernel were you using?
: it evens works with 2.6.8.1 currentl on the sid on the inspiron,: is there a way to enlarge desktop icons and fonts in a sweep ? like in one click set up? (rather than working each icon and stretching it)


it is a wrapper around mount that allows normal users to mount removable devices,this avoids mangling the fstab and allows to run hal as root,sorry, allows to run hal as normal user
: hmm, but hal wasn't intended to run as root from first place, i mean by design ?,: it was made to overcome the problem of rootless accesses to mounting
it often runs as root in other distros to be able to mess up the fstab,but apart from that it only needs some additional groups and capabilities, so we have it run as 'hal' in Warty,hal is such a complex program, it shouldn't run as root
: i am very interested in learning all the I can about it, would you point me to the proper places to start reading all about it?
http://wiki.no-name-yet.com/WartyWarthog_2fSecurityReports has all of my security reports,I tried to remove privileges from as many programs as possible
: does it mess anything up with an already working installation of X? I have nvidia closed bin drivers on the laptop, and when installting hal and g-v-m my nvidia setup stopped working. luckily when removing the packages, everything went back to normal.
hmm, I cannot see how hal and gvm should influence the X graphics driver,gvm runs as user without any privileges, so it cannot mess up nvidia
: well, it had all it's dependecies installed, dbus-1 also and the others.
hal has some more privileges, maybe it does some scans which irritate the nvidia driver.does the problem also occur with hal running as root?
: strange..i was also surprised to see that, even more to realize removing the packages worked. :),: actually i think that is the way it's set up on sid
it is.
: i didn't do anything manually, only apt-get install <pkgs>
I proposed the patch also to Debian, but they did not adopt it yet,luckily I could convince upstream to adopt the changes
: the patch to have it purely user mode?
which patch?,ah, the patched hal to allow it to run also as non-root,you can switch it with debconf:,sudo dpkg-reconfigure hal,default is user for Warty, root for sid,no, it runs as its own system user called 'hal',it's all in the security report and changelog.do you have access to the wiki?
: yes i do, however i tend to get lost there ;-)
I posted the URL above,basically it's user hal + some privileged groups + some kernel capabilities (CAP_NET_ADMIN IIRC),hal does not prompt for that,it just asks whether to run hal as user or as root
: this would work on the sid also?
yes, as soon as the patch is adopted in sid
: oh ok, ubuntu strengths are starting to show...;)
actually we are quite good at the moment,all nonnecessary suid root bits and root daemons are eliminated,I hope that it will get even better, I try to convince the guys to have mandatory access control by default
: reading the secuiryt policy..yeah looks like it's going to rock
but this is of course Hoary
: what do you mean by access control mandatory, which parts?
things like grsecurity, RSBAC and SELinux,you have a global fine-grained privilege policy that cannot be overriden by users, processes and packages,on a server it is not too hard, but on a Desktop it will get tricky,I guess/hope it will become by Hoary job to deal with this,actually normal users should not notice that there are additional ACLs
: sounds correct. however, wouldn't you like to get it back notime when need arise?,: yes,: I will,: me also :).: sudo is base right?
admim
: hmmm..
admin and optional
: what language do you need it ?
Myself I'm fine with English, but I can do the German translations,if I need your's, I will come back to you :-)
: k :) thanks for that
Morning!"
: bon appetit,: aye aye sir
thanks,please give doko your new mail,hi!
: hey how you been?,: i have been advancing slowly since we last talked, i had some outter virtual matters i had to attend to, but i AM advancing. mdz helped alot :) on your absence..,: the bugzilla 2002 DSA is applied, however there are more bugs there (see #1611) justdave may be on the way to fix those,: oops wrong bug#,: sedc
sedc???
: #1161,: that was sec :),: havn't slept much (4 hours, however too much) so i'm little shakey at the kbd
dude, it's Sunday!
: so what ? ;)
at least on Sundays it should be a human right to sleep 8 hours :-),I looked at #1161.
: in Israel sunday is a regular day as all days ;),: a work day
so far I ignored all bugzilla security bugs since it is not in Warty
: oh right, mdz told me it's not main.,: ok, so gemme some sight about DSA-204-1, it seems fixed - however the DSA says it still not fixed on sid. changlog shows that version, however the fix is not mentioned.
nevertheless, if the sarge/sid version is vulnerable, we should tell its maintainer about
: ofcourse. i am documenting it, i even found a dsa which has been fixed in sid, but still the dsa has not been updated.,: mdz told me there would a db for that stuff, to be forwarded back at debian
regarding DSA-204-1: CAN-2002-1281 and CAN-2002-1282 have been fixed in KDE 3.0.5,so it's history :-)
: would you mind sending me the link?,: unless it's only on the changlog
just follow the references from the CVE
: k
http://www.kde.org/info/security/advisory-20021111-1.txt,regarding DSA-219 (which you asked by mail): its not contained in Warty, AFAICS
: thanks
generally: such security bugs should always be fixed upstream, so Debian cannot forget to apply a patch in future versions.BTW, don't you have a free day in a week in Israel?
: we had it, it's basically only saturday, and friday is half day free,: according to the pacakge list on the warty (universal/net) we have dhcpcd,: 1:1.3.22pl4-13
universe is not Warty,universe is basically Debian,or, rather, all packages that Debian additionally has over Warty
: but people can aptitude it, can't they?
of course,nobody should stop them to install Debian packages,we just don't support the universe
: ok, so i can disregard everything in universe/* ?
of course,if you find something that affects Debian, it would be nice if you submitted an RC bug to Debian,but the Warty packages have high priority,thanks for your work!,see you.
: yeah, i wanna finsih warty first,: see ya buddy, take care!,: Hi!
Hi!
: i see you keep coming and going, had a good time off? ;)
no, I just installed the new Warty on my Desktop,and now its done :-),still had some rough edges,at the first attempt, grub crashed with an "error 21"
: have you spotted the topic?
yes, I had a special BIOS setting enabled which speeds up bootup,and I added a new hd today (before I did not have enough space to test Warty on my desktop, only my laptop),and the BIOS did not yet recognize my new hd, so grub did not either
: around?
sure
: DSA-129-1 , again a pkg in (/pool/main && /pool/universe).: what does it mean when a package is in both?
just as in Debian, the highest version number is preferred,so if a bug is not fixed in main, but fixed in a higher version of universe, it should get fixed in main
: ok
but actually main packages shouldn't have a lower version than packages in universe, this could lead to hard-to-find errors.can you please ask elmo about this?
: about this specific dsa?
about this multiple-versions problem in general
: ok.,: boy that was hot stuff ;)
finished?
: on my way
congrats!
: i can't reach elmo
mail?
: right,: apache pkg is also on both pools
or maybe somebody else can help,maybe you can bring this up at the ailing list
: i started spotting this only when i searched after the first oocurence....: how can we decide if a package should be on main or universe?,: i'm taking this to the mailing list
main is calculated automatically from the Seeds,so every package that is in main shouldn't be in universe
: ok, we need a script ot fix up bugged packages list. find each package on main, and remove from universe.
this should be easy to do on the apt lists
: problem is, i had already disregarded package in sake of saving time, because the first oocurence on the pkg file was _universe_
ugh. I removed universe from the apt sources when doing apt-cache things during the review
: that was a good idea,: shame I didn't
no reason to be ashamed :-),if you even considered the universe packages and found no vulnerability, then the Warty packages cannot be worse,the only pitfal would be if you discovered a vulnerable universe package which is also in main,but we would like to know about them anyway because they must be fixed in Debian, too
: ok, i need a main only pkg list, and after my first scan through the DSAs, i'll work my universe list, see which pkgs are truely in main, and consder those,: all the unconsidered pkgs (due to universe) are in one list, so i'll work them out with a main's only list.
maybe the fastest method would be to first determine the packages which are in main _and_ universe,and then intersect this list with the DSA-affected packages,the remaining ones shouldn't be too many :-)
: ok, i can try through a perly at it, however might take some time
I can do the script if you want
: great!,: zip it before you send,: i have to go now , be back in about half an hour. send me the script when you're done, i'll continue then,: have the script output _only_ those in main, so i'll know to drill down them
the script will print out the packages which are in main+restricted _and_ universe
: back, i want the script to output only those packages which i need to consider, you're opting for that?
did you already read the mail?
: in the while, has anybody any clue about that pkg lists bug?
I did not find any duplicates.maybe you should apt-get update?,although I doubt that the seeds changed recently
: darn, i think i don't have restricted on my sources..: how's that line going?
but that should not lead to duplicates in the other two,just add restricted where main and universe are
: done, apt-get updating, than checking an example duplicated pacakge.
stop
: stopped.: btw, i am using aptitude, could this be the issue?
before you upgrade, can you please check with the script whether your old apt lists have duplicates?,I don't know, but aptitude should use apt
: just exec the script from the directory i put it in?,: (chmod ofcourse)
yep
: Source packages that occurr both in (main+restricted) and universe:,: i don't have restricted packages list...
so if you don't have the restricted packages, just delete them from the script,or add them to your apt sources
: ok, hold on.: here?
yep
: darn, my house is going under redecorations and remount, the painter disconnected my power cord :-p,: retrying ths script...
ugh, disconnecting power is ugly :-/
: good i had the sweetest reiserfs install with this version of warty
BTW, did you find any open issues in the 2002 DSAs? How far did you come with it?
: not really :) i have left more 132-->150 , and reconsider duplicates,: yey! i might be visiting there sometime soon ;),: we should ask upstream maintainers and advice them about it
I doubt that,cool is a genuine German word!,(or so)
: hahah,: you from germany? 
90% of today's youngsters from Germany would claim that,I am,today's German is so infiltrated by English words...
: somebody told me KDE is from Kool Desktop envir..
when they first invented it, the K had no special meaning (AFAIK)
: well, that also. but the Kool (he explained me that C is stressed in germen, and sounds like K,: sound kooler ;),: 15 to go,: send you emails :-).,: s/send/sent,: ok, what's next? :-).: should I coordinate with him, maybe start down the list until we meet in the middle?,: different time zone? :),: yes'sir!
do you want to do the universe checking?
: yes, it's due with the public review?
due?
: sorry,,: it's universe :),: no due
verifying these 33 packages in universe is bonus, so you don't need to if you don't want
: i'll do it..: what about the universe stuff from 2002 DSAs?
alextreme: ping?
pong
will it be possible for you to build a live CD which corresponds to sounder 8?  that would be excellent
and sounder 8 is the end of this week?
sounder 8 is tonight :-).hmm...what is a realistic date to have an updated live CD?  is it more than one day's work?,well, it doesn't need to be released at the same time, the idea was just to have the same packages on it,there have been a lot of changes since wartylive-v1 :-),you should use germinate to generate the package list, so that it is consistent with ours
k, i've set up everything to build a new warty overnight. it still has a 2.6.7 kernel though, would that be an issue?
hmm, that's strange
(not sure if you got this one earlier) i've set up everything to build a new warty overnight. it still has a 2.6.7 kernel though, would that be an issue?
is it problematic to put 2.6.8.1 on it?,for this, I have all night :-).anything I can do to help?
I'm off for the night, I'll be back online tomorrow evening and hope to have something useful by then. if not, thursday is my day off so that's the latest possible
ok, good night, thanks
just checking, is the default background now the one stating 'ubuntu debugging artwork'?
there is no longer a bootsplash,great, looking forward to it
think you've been looking forward to it for some time, looking at the severity updates to my bug :)
not only that, every day someone asks in here for a live CD :-).ping?
pong
how is the live CD going?  you sounded nearly ready to upload


current copies of germinate output are here: https://chinstrap.warthogs.hbd.com/~cjwatson/germinate-warty-output/,init=/bin/sh,or boot with single, on i386 there's probably even an entry for that on the grub boot menu.cancelled how?
by select "Cancel" and hit down,#1085
I quite like the idea of cancelling the user addition and being sent back to set the root password, actually


.au keyboard have a [->]  key one them or what?
as in the cursor keys?,copy and pasted :),totally,that whole area needs serious improvement in gnome (and not just random guesswork),i started writing an analysis of osx's execution model a while back,which i hoped would fuel some more work on this, but it's a really huge lump of work to fix properly
hey SurcouF ,guys, SurcouF has cancelled the user creation during the installation,and he has no root password,and no user account,how he solves that ? :)
no problem to solve
oh, I was thinking so :).how do you log ?
what do you mean ?,like irssi ? ;-)
probably yes,totem supports subtitles


what was the error? grub-related?
how's the preview-release been? gotten quite busy in here :)
totally sweet,lots of love :)
gday, how're things down under tonight? :)
#496,#496 is the panic
curious...what happens if you boot with devfs=mount?
i'll tell you in a few minutes,no dice
for macintosh/dvorak, yes
i'm not using dvorak; reporting
what does dvdauthor do?
Seems to work.
ta. how's the tour?
Good, so far.  It should be less hectic from now on, which will be a relief.
rad
Thom's.
neat,wow, just reading mary's trip wrap-up.try s/hpi6/inet(hpi6)/ ?
Just did; see my update to the bug :)
cheers
Have you seen thedailywtf.com?
heh, no
yow, did you type that monster out from memory? :)
yeah :),used to be an alias -- KDE is particularly suseptible to that sort of breakage, and when your X libs/server is more broken than not ...
is 'Configure the Logical Volume Manager' supposed to take you back to the same screen you started on... because it does
may be broken, file a bug and assign it to me please,because today is our preview release,and today's images are very close to what we'll be releasing as our first offering to the world
so when are we expecting this new CD image?,like partition resizing being 0% for the whole duration
that depends on a number of factors,like, for a start, the filesystem :),that's partman's fallback mode in certain cases
ah, well I was resizing a 60 odd gb partition to 12gb, it was ext3
debian-installer at first
yeah, though when I upgrade the kernel, it resets it
oh, *that* initrd,initrd-tools,I think that got fixed recently in hoary,no, not that part,http://bugs.debian.org/271038
OH FUCK X CAN EAT A BAG OF ARSE
welcome to the light
why is arch broken !!AGAIN!! for debrix, and can you fix it?
give me some context..and where you doing two things to the same working dir from different shells ?
tla commit -s '...', yes, local, used to live on my laptop, but rsync -a'ed across
try again
now patch 9 isn't found; should i just hit this commit in a for loop?,tell him to mail the list with lspci and lspci -n,i don't have an authoriative list for r128
I've emailed him
it's 0200
around?
um, sort of,if you need me, call me.screen shots, or actual display? using which version of x?
if I take a screen shot, the screen shots of menus are fuxored but the rest is ok. ubuntu-something.
bizzare,no,backporting basic 2d support for r4xx cards
the -12 ati drivers gave me my opengl luv bacl.
yeah, apparently fglrx doesn't do xrandr. bong.
arh.
i can't do anything about it
I know that phool :).is dbus a freedesktop project product or is dbus its own project just hosted @ freedesktop ?
freedesktop project,unnecessary clutter
so, composite is enable, what things use it ?
xcompmgr,but your x will be slow and possibly a bit crashy
I won't be able to tell the difference you mean
your fault for using fglrx :P
I'm not anymore :),it claims no composite extension, though I've installed xcompmgr and restarted X.
and put the magic I directed you to in #g-h to?
yah
in xorg.conf, not XF86Config-4?,/etc/X11/xorg.conf,if it's totally screwed, bounce me your Xorg.0.log
is xcompmgr meant to make everything except the mouse stop working ?
don't ctrl-z it,think about it.  'hey, you can take all of my rendering requests.  now STOP.',nope, just background it.,run with -h for various options,transset,if xdesktopwaves was a composite manager, that would be cool,lifeless: 
garh, I don't see that properly.,garh you were not kidding about slow.
yeah, we don't have proper DMA acceleration for the r3xx series,but it's there in an experimental branch, might make debs if I'm feeling generous and/or bribed with Coopers at DebSIG in February
around?
sup
hey ya
sup?
how can I tell which ati card my old laptop has? (I want to see if its got accelerated 3d)
lspci,everything radeon < 9550 is supported
in warty ?
yah
yabt
yeah, but it was a good opportunity for a snide comment,i'm concerned,nice work with baz 1.3, btw
thanks. got the release ? should piss all over 1.2's speed.
nope, been too busy with packaging xorg and dbus
well, when you do ;)... lemme know :)
i will, as long as I can commit to debrix :P


manual partitioning is pretty safe because I always test it
ok, awesome.
that's fine for me, I don't really care,haha,:p
until we have a DAMAGE-enabled server, you're kinda stuck with it
though I consider still using base10 a worse crime :/,I wanted a printer, and then I (no shit) found one that fell off the back of a truck
i have a rad networked lexmark :)
I have  terrible heap of shit winprinter :),14C is good,I don't think it's a very scientific study :)


go to vt2, ps auxww|grep grub, kill that process, it restarts and works
there are two grub processes. Kill the grub-install one or the grub one?,you're a ninja.,it's saying "Error 6: Mismatched or corrupt version of stage1/stage2".is this a recoverable error or do I get to do another install?
yo thom, how's it going?,fiiine :),just mucking about with ubuntu on my powerbook ...,checking out bugzilla to log my critical "fortune is missing" bug :)
hm, I thought we added fortune
ah, wasn't installed by default, that's all
hm, should've been installed by default; is this an older installation that you've upgraded?
guys, is there any reason I should expect grub-install to take > 1 minute in the ubuntu install process?
what filesystems are you using?
XFS..you're right. There was, I'd forgotten. Why does it not work with XFS?
it's a grub bug, reported in Debian, I don't think anybody's figured out how to make it work yet
interesting. Thanks for the info..assuming it was the disk order, is there a way to fix it?
figure out what the disk is called in the system where you're running lilo (e.g. mount disks to find out), then call it that in lilo.conf
I have targets for both /dev/hde and /dev/hdg (which are both visible from lilo-os). Booting either of them sends me to /dev/hde.
boot, run through the UI up until the start of partitioning (it hasn't written anything to the disk at that point, but does have all the necessary modules etc.),then switch to tty2, mount any partitions you need, chroot if necessary
will that let me see my RAID partitions?.you around? any ideas?
um, sounds like the grub installation's broken, but if you're at that point it should be a fresh install, so I have no idea
ok. I'm currently most of the way through the next install.,ok. I kinda figured that'd be it.,another data point for you: the red error screen did not appear when I told it to use EXT3. All other settings were the same.
oh, XFS,that warning is there for a reason :P
do we have any cd writing software outofthebox?,there rather unintuitive to find
n-c-b opens when you put a blank CD in... how much more do you want?
: oh oops sorry. my cdrw media is not blank. ok thanks,: cool! it's like on Mac OS X,: does it empty the cdrw before writing the iso? (it's full with the 2 days daily)
there is an option, yeah
: i really ought to pay more attention, it's doing it right and reports it nicely.


I hope to god that in 60 years we've built something better than X
current X is already better than X of 5 years ago.,well, every process on your system has some GNU code loaded in it ...
yeah, but you can't have your cake and eat it too
the biggest lie they make in the road safety ads is where they imply that there is a linear relationship between speed and stopping distance.
rootskel (0.91) unstable; urgency=low,  * Joey Hess,    - Add S05acpi-i386 to load fan and thermal modules if available,      as early as practical in boot to avoid machine meltdown., -- Joey Hess <joeyh@debian.org>  Thu, 19 Aug 2004 20:39:33 +0100,ooh, must merge that
Oh, which reminds me....Does the fan module get loaded before fsck runs?
right, thought so
that list has evolution in it
oh, bah, it didn't until like five minutes ago ...


is there a way to avoid all these device mapper errors at bootup beyond disabling the script?
mdz said that was fixed in recent kernels.are you using 2.6.8.1 in warty?
I'm using warty, this morning's dist-upgrade.,"ubuntu debugging artwork" basically.
dist-upgrade won't install the new kernel
okay, a new package name, just picking it up.
should do from now on, provided you have the linux-image-2.6-{386,686,whatever} package installed,but it won't work across the kernel-image -> linux-image rename
and rhythmbox just randomly crashes with more than 1,400 songs loaded,I have 4 days something, but...why was the rename done, though?


heh. 
the name of the software contained in the package is 'linux'; that should be reflected in the name of the package :-P
this isn't a plan to allow something like hurd-image to pop up, right?,Kamion: this kernel recognizes my pcmcia network card *before* my inbuilt one..Kamion: can I trust the change will be stable, or is this a bug we should be fixing?
when you install from scratch, the installer writes an /etc/iftab with names for each interface,which is then used to assign them the same names in the future,please do test it,if you yank the card corresponding to eth0, the other one should remain eth1
no /etc/iftab exists here, I'm upgrading from a very early sounder (5 or so).
that'd do it
can I kick something to get it created?
you can reinstall, which would be an excellent test for us :-),you're probably in the same position as lamont,older CDs wouldn't have installed ifrename by default
so about the mknod spew and bluetooth error -- should I be concerned enough to file bugs or are you on this?
I don't have any bluetooth hardware, so I've no idea about that one,I don't recall seeing any mknod errors, either.  if you could file a bug specifying which init script is producing the error, we should be able to track it down.what is the error that you see?
let me reboot without gdm so I can actually tell you.,btw, the new bootup is significantly faster on this notebook.


hey carlos 
I have a funny bug with epiphany,I cannot visit https://www.networksolutions.com,I see it's not a know bug,#1112
still here ?
yes,thanks, it works
basically
hey !.I'm not able to regenerate the .pot file from the ubuntu's gnome-applets package. did you have any problem about it when preparing the package for ubuntu?
no, what's the problem ?.which ones ?.what do you do to get this ?
it's possible that the binary build does not raise the error, but cannot understand how could that pass make dist-check to release the tar.gz...,don't worry about it, I only asked because It's funny to think that a package was relased that way,is it normal that the Computer folder has "Network" icon inside? I thought it was removed so only local volumes will be there
jamesh did the changes, no sure if that's a bug or if the icon has not been moved ...,please assign it directly to jamesh ,I think you're getting too in the details, uncommenting should be enough


: that thing with the resolution happened to me also, though it was rather quick and slick fixing it using the screen resolution resizer
but is that remembered the next time you log in?,and doesn't work for all users I guess
on another note, I was reading the warty wiki and I think bz2 is such an incredible CPU hog that it's not worth it for 10%,law of diminishing returns and all that
same comments have been done in the last conference,that's the same reason X switched back from .bz2 to .gz,which CD? ;)
damn, 236MB upgrade,I suggest updating xchat.
RC bugs?
issues with crashing and tabs jumping around
yes, as I posted to the sounder list yesterday.what panic is that?
IMHO cryptic options should look cryptic,I am lame; I get some leet 0-day warez and I don't even have time to test them :-(.,does anyone have a suggestion for me to install ubuntu on one of my machines without destroying the existing debian install?   I don't have room anywhere for a full backup of my existing drives.
do you have a spare couple of gig in a partition of it's own?
if I had that, I wouldn't be asking this question ;)
rumor has it you can force ubuntu to just install in that partition, instead of trashing the machine...,then you're probably stuck with installing another hard drive... :-(
Rgargh
or you could install vmware under debian, and then install ubuntu in a virtual machine...
I meant "warez" in the figurative sense
or s/vmware/selinux/
selinux?
sorry.  uml
you mean UML?,yeah, thought so,I guess it's about time I bought a new hard drive anyway,unless you guys want to send me one? :-)
I fear it's too far to walk. :-)
hrm, I think my upstream is shit, or no-name-yet.com has a slow link,I'm betting more on my upstream.. only getting 30KB/s *sigh*
I tend to get ~600KB/sec from nny.c,to Ubuntu?  I think there's interest in it, yes..try talking to mdz about it?
perhaps.. no use now till hoary anyway


(so that base-config can do right-to-left text),whoa; after the kernel fixes and adding openoffice.org, powerpc just ballooned to 578MB,there's different MMU handling code for power3, power4, and everything else,(there's an argument that power3 is a little pointless for us to support right now, since we probably can't boot on any such machine anyway due to only really supporting powermac-type machines ...),power4 is what's used in G5 systems, though,I think there's also something a little bit strange with powerpc ISO generation; it's got 16/17MB extra in the .iso over what du says it should have
how does that compare with the x86 overhead?
that's the number compared against x86 overhead
merp; 16 megs more?,I guess HFS hybridisation might cover that,try du -B 2048
same answer
okay; so it's not du using the wrong block size
oh, no, sorry; I had already been using -m
is the x86 iso being built with compression?
what, you mean the weird non-standard Rock Ridge extension thing? -z?,no, it's not
right,so the files on the x86 ISO should be taking up 537116672 bytes.how big did you say the ISO itself was?,IIRC 2 real days,elmo upped it when thom complained
dhcp3-client's the warty default
*nod*
depended-upon would have germinate force it into desktop anyway, so you just mean 'in germinated supported seed'


it was there for potential use by os-prober to detect BSD systems, but that support's never actually been committed
hmm,interesting installation wos
hm, I'm going to bed now, sorry
ok, i'll send mail
bug?.so, where do we want to put the preview release ISOs, URL-wise?.something like http://ftp.no-name-yet.com/cdimage/warty-preview/warty-i386-1.iso?,I was also thinking of dropping the -1, it's a legacy from Debian's CD sets,(and it confused one sounder who was thinking "are they only on Sounder CD 1?")


yes, can't change them until we have our own equivalents though :).you mean previous rather than current?
no current
it's broken ...
yeah just noticed.. no network drivers in the kernel
they're there, but the kernel versions are out of sync
hrm.. just looked in /lib/modules/2.6.8.1-1-386/kernel/drivers/ and there is no net subdir on the cd
the drivers are on the CD, in pool/main/l/linux-kernel-di-i386-2.6/, but the kernel versions don't match the running kernel,I've already uploaded a fix for this
cool.thnink there'll be a rebuild of the image with that fixed?
yes, but I have to wait for it to churn through the buildds and the archive and then it has to be manually accepted by elmo because debian-installer uploads are weird,the current logo's ugly, I know; I'll try to improve it before preview release
I don't have that much problem with it.. but it'd look nicer imho if there was more on the page.. eg: perhaps zebra stripes in a bar across the bottom or something.. meh.. I'm no graphic person anyway
ftp.no-name-yet.com -> archive.ubuntu.com
oops,not me.. I talk about wireless
yow
friend of mine did this for about a year and a half..  the 'biblical' sleeping pattern. work for 6 days, and then sleep on the 7th,got a q for you re: d-i & non-detected rootfs devices
yuh-huh
amd64, rootfs on a 3ware 9500 SATA raid (3w-9xxx).. install detects, partitions and installs to it, but after boot pivot-root fails. using the release images too btw
suggests that the initrd couldn't figure out where the root partition is, but apart from that I'm clueless ...,I suspect I'd end up booting with init=/bin/sh and tracing through it by hand :-(
so the q. is there a way to tell the initrd to load a module (as it's in the initrd, but not in the initrd's loadmodules).or alternatively, a way I can add it manually during the install process?
only at initrd build time, AFAIK,you can re-run mkinitrd during the install ...
I looked at that.. and it kept breaking when I was running it manually from the command-line.. any suggestions/pointers on what to pass it?
something like 'chroot /target mkinitrd -o /boot/initrd.img-2.6.8.1-3-386 /lib/modules/2.6.8.1-3-386' should reproduce the current initrd, tweak from there,you'll need to add the module in question to /target/etc/mkinitrd/modules first
brilliant.. thanks. I've fiddled enough with initrd ages ago to know how to get the thing to force a module load at boot, and if not, I'm sure I'll figure it out. I'll see about adding how to do it into the wiki so that it can get FAQ'd
BTW you don't need to redo the whole install, just run up to the start of partitioning so that all the filesystem modules and such are available,please report a bug with full details, this fiddling should be made unnecessary rather than just documented
yeah I know.. was inspecting it a few times like that,yeah, but unlikely to happen for warty as it stands, since it's released and all. *grin*
right
also it's quite possible that it could happen in the future, even though it shouldn't, better to have the entry there so that people can actually resolve the problem at least and get going
true
could be interesting to get initrd to parse the kernel commandline and have an option to load module(s) before doing pivot-root - eg: initmod=3w-9xxx - so that you could append it to the kernel commandline at least and get booted... though then there is always the security implications... however if someone has physical access to the box, you're toast anyway
(only works with modules already in the initrd anyway)
yeah.. but they're all in the initrd currently, so it shouldn't be a problem
although yes, that would be a useful feature


not sure i'd want to run apache in the session, (seems uneccesary, too)
I think the idea is to not require any root privileges.
preforking with no modules loaded, 2M is about right
would you need anything other than the webdav module?
mod_zeroconf or similar, presumably


hrm, must be related to scsi issues,dude, your bong radar is on the money
seems plausible, dunno
any weirdarse tricks to get ipw2200 going?
nope, Just Works for me
approx how long does it take you to do i386 and ppc installs?
not long, why?
i need times :)
I'll time it the next time I go through.why do you need a compiler for that?.they don't just give you a binary blob?
hey dude
you missed the whole slashdot thing for your intervie while you were gone. heh.
heh, I caught up on that a couple of days later
yeah I figured that
right,nope,then again, I don't do dmix, and just live with single-open
booyah just ordered myself an X40. your blog entry reassured my decision..awake at all?
yeah, but running out to lunch, bbiab
my X40 gets here next week!!!!!
nice :)
yeah your blog post on the out-of-the-box workage pushed it over the edge.
yeah, they started offering 1.4GHz about 5 days after I ordered mine
I convinced my employer to snag it for me, so I can't complain.
nice!
how's the 3d performance? the bouncing cow isn't going to floor it is it?
with the i855, pretty poor, but you can do reasonable stuff on it
my X40 came in, your packages work great. :D
sensational :)
should I still be running the x40 acpi stuff from your repository or was that rolled into the hoary acpi package?
given a default install, are there any "easy dialup" tools installed?
pppconfig? dunno about others ...,Computer -> System Configuration -> Networking seems to have a wizard-type thing for PPP
Unfortunately, pppconfig isn't easy enough for me, I have no way to work out which /dev device is my modem, or even if there is a driver for it loading correctly :(,It requires wvdial, which did not get installed :(
mentioned it to those who can,yep, got that,there'll be a brief delay, some work being done on the download page so it's temporarily edit-frozen,you might well have to patch either kernel-package or the source package in question or both,hm, nothing evolution-ish is in the current list of uninstallable packages
does that mean the problem isn't real?,I don't quite understand what you're trying to tell me :)
nah, just trying to diagnose,a newer version of evolution was uploaded recently, give it a while to build, seems they're just out of sync
I don't think holding evo helps,you need to hold evolution-data-server
no, that's deliberate,we turned that behaviour back on for some devices, because otherwise there was no discoverable way to unmount a device,if you can find the logs of the last technical board meeting, it was discussed there
thanks
linux-restricted-modules-2.6.10-*4*-k7?,linux-k7 depends (indirectly) on linux-restricted-modules-2.6.10-5-k7
weird, perhaps something funky is going on with apt-proxy?,yeah, using the archives helps. I guess I need to hack on apt-proxy at some point.


the dothans do, they go as low as 1.2 ghz, with the 2mb cache.
I didn't know they went that low
the wattage difference from the banias centrino's is significant also. I've seen 20%+ improvement in battery life with the new chips.
now if only someone would manufacture a new laptop I want to buy
yeah I'm waiting for fujitsu to put them in their P series.


the P-M is a sweet processor as well,it massively outperforms the P-3 and P-4
could this be anything to do with it's 1MB OF CACHE!!?!?!?!
it's also because it wasn't designed by Intel Marketing,yeah, that's why I didn't buy one
sure there is,I think it has extra speedstep crack
ew.,gnome-cups-manager -> print test page gives a huge "XIMIAN(R) DESKTOP" with logo and stuff.
what's wrong with that?
it should say Ubuntu.I'm running it on my athlon64 system at home at least.  Could you give us a bit more information that "does not work"?.how much memory?
Aaaah,1.5G
what kind of error do you get?.as in, what are the messages?
just a moment while I check,GRUB loading stage 1.5...,GRUB loading, please wait...
and then nothing happens?
yep.  Then it hangs.
what file system do you have on /?
ext3
hm, ok.  That should just work.
INDEED IT SHOULD! :)
I need to get some food; could you please file a bug on bugzilla.ubuntu.com with as much information as you can gather?  Hardware configuration is interesting.  Please assign the bug to tfheen@raw.no and I'll follow up on it.
You know, I think this is very likely not ubuntu's problem; I was just hoping someone here might have some insight
we'd like ubuntu to work well on all amd64 hardware.
This system seems to have been invaded by a ghost recently, because a previous installation of sarge used to work, and now, the same CDs that I used to install the last working version of sarge (booting less than 5 hours ago on this same machine) do not yield a working minimal install,and actually, the win64 installer won't even boot
I doubt we can fix hardware errors. ;)
I'll get back to you if I can produce a coherent explanation of what's happening.
you around?
yeah..are you sure those icons aren't left over from running KDE?
this was a flatlined install about sounder 3 timeframe... ,no clue.  It's remotely possible that I ran kde once back when, or rather, had it installed for some other packages...   /home/lamont carried over across the flatline
is there any files in ~/Desktop that look like they might be icons for your home dir?,(there shouldn't be with Gnome),delete the Home and Trash files,if you want to turn on the home, computer or trash icons, use gconf-editor
Jeff Waugh, I believe
you speak about jdub_ ?
if the component doesn't exist, please use UNKNOWN.,just being finalized nowish


what do you mean in particular?
ah, not very clear was I?  I'm talking about desktop icons and automounting.  I popped a CF card into my laptop and there were some log messages but no mounting or icons.  
actually it should automatically mount the device (see Computer window), and (unless you disabled it) a Nautilus window with the Card's contents should pop up,I would be interested in debugging this..does the device appear in the Device Manager?,(i. e. in hal-device-manager).so it does not show your CF reader?,actually you should see the device itself and one or more volumes
I'm getting some sorta loop here.  
a hal loop? THAT sounds interesting,what do you mean.?
http://paste.plone.org/1376
BTW, yesterday I tested an USB CF reader myself, worked perfectly...,I'l look.ugh! why does udev create and remove the device?.did you change anything in udev's rules?
nope
ah, is this a PCMCIA card reader?,ah, since these are neither USB nor FireWire, we currently don't support automounting them,this will hopefully be sorted out in Hoary, but not for Warty any more,the problem is that we don't want to automount fixed hard disks,but it is very hard to decide which device node is a fixed one and which is a PCMCIA,in fact, apart from the fact that the PCMCIA node may appear later, there is nothing in the kernel nor in sysfs that tells us that the PCMCIA thingy is removable,but still, this udev loop looks scary.is the device node actually removed and created? Can you see this by polling ls -l /dev/hde* ?
card is out, but I'm getting this every few seconds in daemon.log:
udev keeps adding hde1 although the card is out?,actually not, udev should only create devices that actually exist, not all of hde1 to hde24234234 in advance,right. but the cardmgr is the one that seems to create these devices,they probably still exist from an earlier invocation of cardmgr,BTW, I just got an idea how to get your card reader working :-).if "line 29" applied, this must mean that /sys/block/hde/removable is '1' on your system. Can you please verify that?,if so, then the change in pmount is trivial
yup
Great! This did not work on another PCMCIA card, but then at least we can support some (including yours :-) )
lovely :)
if mdz agrees, that is,eek,I will beat the hell^W^W device creation out of cardmgr.good night! Can I bother you when you got up with a new cardmgr?
sure, I'll give it a whirl,just /msg me or something when you want me to try something
Good night!,hi! I uploaded a new pcmcia-cs package which should sort out this insane device creation - removal - creation - ....can you please test them with your pcmcia device?
cool,sure
thx!
seems good in the logs
no, the device won't be mounted automatically
ah
pcmcia-cs should just behave sanely now, without creating device nodes on its own
gotcha
why? does it still behave bad?
nah, the logs look fine but I was hoping for some auto-browse magic on the CF
Aight, bedtime,night folks
night,yes, should be
testing is for losers,real men just Wing It(tm)
i will never forget your face when you Winged It (TM) with my mail...
I'm never going to be allowed to forget that, am I? :-),how about s/sabdfl/sbdfl/ where the s stands for 'schizo'? ;)
done.any response from internet solutions re mirror in south africa?
I've got the trash applet using the -accept icon when you hover over it now
awesome
I don't know whether it is feasible to change the drag icon in time for Warty though.
great work,Keybuk, you get battery charge level from mouseover when it's plugged in, i thikn
you might not actually ... ,I just noticed that there are different tooltips on the big battery and the little status icon


morning,hey jamesh :),got your mail, not replied yet
cool.  Will have more patches soon :).did you get my email?.does the fix in bug 1266 seem to work for you?
just get up and had some coffee, not tested yet,I'll test in 5 min


hey dude,yeah, but i'm on a 4gb bandwidth limit, and 2 of that disappeared within 27h
merp,cheap imitation
morning dude,don't let that hinder you!
You owe me a new vocal faculty
?
I've started calling people 'dude'
represent,not even,see, ross is down with the mad phat flava
yeah; but he kinda looks the part
of course you can :),if I can get my housemates ... (did you see that?)
Oh yes; that caused much mirth
you need to start beatboxing
I *so* don't
you too can say wikkity-wikkity westgart :)
as words yes,I watched a program with someone beatboxing on it recently,it scared me,I'm sure human beings aren't meant to make those noises
rad :).have you heard rahzel?
No
singing and beatboxing, at the same time,. one guy, one windpipe, one mouth.
Yeah; that's roughly what this guy was doing
awesome!
I fear that my tone-deafness and my lack of rhythm would work against me were I to try and beatbox,Your crack is bad crack,and it's hairy
which crack?
linux-restricted-modules-2.6.9-1-386
right ...
also, xorg looks shit at 1280x800,come and see
wfm kthxbye,bring it to me


if a removable drive is removed; doesn't the kernel automatically unmount it?
unfortunately not
can you do it by filesystem uuid?
that would be great! I don't have any Windows boxes to connect to
If I have an rdesktop window open; and I choose lock-screen from the gnome menu; it doesn't lock until I de-focus the rdesktop window,and my password doesn't turn up in a notepad inside the rdesktop
that's great! So this means that the bug has been fixed now..I write the followup. Did the time-based lock work as well?
yep; time-based lock worked too; I don't have time to do a writeup just now; but you're welcome to quote that I tested it and it seemed to work,rdesktop 1.3.1-1,I'm dsilvers@debian.org
thanks a lot!
that's okay
morning.Morning! Which problems do you have in particular?
the usb stack won't bring up the pendrive
does it have a partition?
yes,I have a laptop; it *was* running Debian/unstable until last night. I reformatted it with Sounder#9 and now I can't mount my pendrive with my SSH and GnuPG keys on
About an hour ago I uploaded a new utopia stack. Can you please upgrade and try that again before we debug this?
Won't make a jot of difference. the USB stack isn't working
ah, you mean you cannot even mount it manually?,that's baaaad...
right; the dmesg when I plug the usb key in is:,2.6.7 on sid worked fine


may I whine a bit at you?  About HP and Linux non-support for scanners?
sure.  it's a topic I like to whine about too.  the fundamental problem is that HP has OEM'ed a bunch of scanner stuff that we don't own all the IP for, which means some scanners are well supported and some aren't.,I had a chance to poke at management in the right part of the company about a month ago.  They "understand the issue" but I don't have a completely clear picture about if/when the situation might change.,I will.  meanwhile, I strongly suggest checking the SANE web site's list of supported devices before making purchases, regardless of the vendor in question.
it must be sad to give such advice. :(
well, yes.  on the other hand, some Windows user will probably really enjoy it.
yeah, it's fun. :)
hardware hacking is good.
I'm thinking about how we want to merge the ia32-libs in ubuntu and Debian, as they are quite forked now.  Do you want me to make a new package and just point you to it, or do you have any other thoughts on the matter?
if you want to hand me a new package to review, that's fine
ok, I'll put something together, then.
fwiw, I sat up most of last night building an 80 watt RF power amplifier for 1296 Mhz ... part of my ongoing project to try "moonbounce" with my daughter.,I've been taking pictures, but haven't made time to create a proper web page for the project yet
I haven't been sucked into the ham business yet, but I guess I will, at some point.  It's fun too.,I just found out somebody had made the same thing I'm doing, but they only have windows software and building it is half the fun, so. :)
a wise man (and good friend) once told me that there are only three reasons to build something yourself instead of buying it.  1) because it doesn't exist otherwise (the new invention excuse), 2) because you have a significant value statement to make (the I can do it lots cheaper and/or better myself excuse), or 3) because you're trying to learn something (the education excuse... my personal favorite).  If it doesn't fit at least one of those thre
I guess I can use the first excuse as well, as no solution doing what I wanted existed when I started, and since I'm not an economist, I care about sunk cost/time so I want to complete it. :)
I'm all in favor of more people developing hardware hacking skills.
uCs are _fun_ to play with, and really simple too.  Not very expensive to get started either (a dev kit costs about 30USD)
seen my latest microcontroller project?  http://can-do.moraco.info/    Next one may be the controller for azimuth and elevation pointing of the EME dish, though frankly I'm about ready to decide it's an ITX motherboard with 4 relays hanging on the parallel port, since CAT-5 would be easier to run out to the tower than a serial port...
you get USB-based uCs, you know.. I haven't had the chance to play with them, though
yes, I've done work with two USB-enabled controllers from Cypress.
how hard are they to get going?  I've heard USB isn't the coziest of protocols to work with?
it's not too bad.  the fx2 parts have good support for bootloading an identity when they first come up on the bus, and the state of USB driver support is a lot better today than it was a year ago.,for lots of things you can cheat and just make it look like a serial port
Heh. I'm getting complaints from people with Compaqs that won't work with their wireless cards now
these are folks putting different minipci cards into notebooks?
Yeah


Computer -> System configuration -> Login screen setup -> "Failed to run gdmsetup as user root: Child terminated with 1 status". Somebody can reproduce ?
works for me; did you enter the correct password?
yes, I double checked
your password, and not the root password?
sorry for this =)
ubuntu includes and uses the synaptics touchpad driver by default,right, you asked if there was something different, and there is
pitte: yes,both, I could sort out 70% of the DSA for 2003,ok, I send it.
: sivang@gmail.com,: thanks,: me nither..,: got it,: same here,: rythmbox complaint...: php4 is universe right?
yes, universe/web
: so that's completely un reasonable that i have another php4 entry on the packag file, saying it's in /poo/main/p/php4 ?,: section web, not universe.: here?
i'm surprised he's not filed a bug about bugs.d.o not doing gzip Content-Encoding
email him immediately to suggest it
which image does he need?,you're asking about hotplug order and audio? I've had to deal with it before.. ask away
I'm asking whether we can rely on the fact that the alsa modules are listed before oss modules in, e.g. modules.pcimap.do you happen to know, or know where to look to find out?,yes, that's exactly why we ditched the init script in discover
cos I'm just about to walk out the door and go to a training session on wireless security?.heh.. have the birds started yet?
what's a bird?  :-)
still here?,I don't know these things :},besides hes cto of the distro: how can he have time to sleep just now
while you are around: where should libsvncpp{0,-dev} go?
hell.,they are eveeeeeel
?
what sort of answer were you expecting ?
well, you wanted them, you got them, only comment: "eve^6l"
so, are you asking "which suite they should go in" .or which dir?.or ... ?
yes, which suite ...
good afternoon
east coast?
the burst I got was bytes.. :-).no updated depends or anything?,although when you're bored, anything you can tell me to make an ATI Radeon 7500 or ATI Rage Mobility P/M go faster than stock-warty would be cool..so it's the environment, then?
you just need to get an ubertv and then you can avoid that
Bourne Supremacy is not on TV yet...
ive got my box at home in the torrent
wasn't worth throwing the 30kbps at home into it... :-)
find like a borders or something with a t-moble hotspot, cost $$, but at least its faster.are there plans for adduser to add to groups/sudoers if you want?
file a wishlist bug
ok.do any of the user management frontends do so?
but how else will we get the OT news???
haha,yeah, you've been fairly removed i guess because of release ;)
better here,I'm installing ubuntu in my imac,#1170 && #1171,you have them assigned to you :-)
then no need to tell me, I get mailed :)
I decided to fill them after I realized you were not online :-),ok, thanks
yeah, was just temporarily distracted,looking at your keymap bug now, it's possible it won't show up on i386 though
:-),if you need any help, I have the machine ready to reinstall. In fact I was starting a MacOSX installation,you should remember mine :-P, it's the funny one where you don't find any key you need ,I said some time ago, that new powerpc machines from apple need 'pc' keyboards
hmm, ok,powerpc/mac is not just new machines though
perhaps old ones also work with pc keymaps, I don't know
how do I distinguish the keymaps?
one works and the other one does not :-P.are you using a powerbook?
not right now but I will be once it finishes rsyncing.I mean, how would I distinguish between Brazilian and Spanish?
I'm not sure if it's brazilian, it was only a gues from what I saw with dpkg-reconfigure console-data.how could I see the keymap I have?
um, kinda trying to figure that out at the moment, console-data is extremely odd,look in /var/log/debian-installer/cdebconf/questions.dat and search for debian-installer/keymap
then it's spanish, but it's not my keyboard ,the problem is that it's mac, and that keyboad does not work
hm, yes, the keymap does seem pretty broken
With Debian (and warty) the only keyboard that works for me is qwerty/Spanish/Standard/CP850
does 'sudo loadkeys es' get you something useful?.or do you need 'sudo loadkeys es-cp850'?
yes, it works now,yes, seems like all keys work now,no, same problem. But as I said, it's not a big problem. They are not drawed into the keyboard and I think are a linux specific mapping,the other AltGr + letter key works @#~ .do you need to know all chars?
could you file a bug on console-data in Debian about this, saying that it should use es.kmap on PowerMacs as well as PCs?
thank you,seems like it's not only a problem with Spanish but I'm not sure if it's ppc related http://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=249875
hm, wait, not sure this is console-data's fault actually,hm, file it against kbd-chooser to start with; I'm not sure it's actually there, but there's some complicated interaction between it and console-keymaps-* going on
ok.you know why it fails?,it's funny that we can change the names with the installer but the normal fdisk does not let you change it :-P (off topic),I think the fdisk in ppc is by default mac-fdisk,yes, fdisk is a symbolic link to mac-fdisk,the hang I have is before I get any dialog to type the name
yes, I know, already debugged and fixed
ok, thanks.hmm, did you saw my mail about the yaboot configuration to boot from a firewire device?.don't worry, It's not urgent. Should I file a bug about it?.do we have a cd check option with the installer?
yes, either (boot in expert mode, or go back to the main menu), then 'check CD-ROM integrity'
a user says that the installer fails always installing a package, so I'm thinking on redirect to the CDROM check dialog,thanks
yes, likely a duff CD
around?
yeah?
I cannot boot my laptop,and don't know how recover it, all seems to be ok, but openfirmware does not sees the initrd.img file
worth a quick ybin?,won't matter unless you're upgrading the kernel
does not work, I think I will take this as an excuse to reinstall the laptop... (if I'm able to copy the data outside :-P)
also check that /etc/yaboot.conf is sane
it is.is it normal that it looks for the  initrd.img at /boot/initrd of the ext3 partition instead of the bootstrap one?
initrd.img certainly shouldn't live on the bootstrap partition.are your symlinks in / correct?,well, your symlinks in /boot then
ok, that was the problem, the initrd link is not there. Thanks for the hint
ah, ok, good
but I did not changed anything so I suppose there is a problem with latest kernel packages... (hoary)
what exactly was the state of the links?,basically I don't know the answer here though, sorry, maybe file a bug
the vmlinux was pointing to the vmlinux image and the initrd.img link don't exists
if you still have the log of the upgrade that would be useful
don't think so, is there any place where it's stored automatically?
no
it's a bug in the kernel package, I was able to reproduce it
ok,cool, thanks
the services you have installed start and stop automatically,otherwise you can modify the symlinks in /etc/rc2.d yourself
what if I want to disable an installed service? Does that mean I have to uninstall it?
no, just remove the symlink.no services listen by default though, so I don't think theres any you'd need to disable ?
I was asking because I wanted to start sshd (which probably means I need to install it). I used to edit symlinks by hand but got told off for it once because ntsysv (or chkconfig) is meant to do that and it will get it right. I just assumed there would be a similar tool.
install openssh-server -- that'll start automatically then
yep, ok.
yeah, Debian tends more towards installed services start,there is a tool to do it, but it's not exactly friendly, so we're not shipping with it,you need to know what you're doing to use it, so you may as well just move the symlinks around


X-),Well, I'm using the keypad ones because the keymap is wrong here
hi carlos
hey!!
which bug are you talking about? maybe ubuntu's keymap not working OK on a PowerBook?
yes, that one.How is going the tests?, do you like ubuntu?
I've re-arranged my PowerBook to try the S8 CD,Yes, looks nice, but I have the same problem with the Keyboard,I did the installation in Catalan
please add any additional information here: https://bugzilla.no-name-yet.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1171
Ok, I just opened bugzilla to find it ;),I don't have the bugzilla account open, anyway is the same thing, I installed on a PowerBook G4 using Catalan and the Keyboard is wrong,It uses the es map
Catalan has its own keymap?
no, I think it uses the spanish one,at least in debian I'm using it and works OK
but you did not changed it after the installation? the Debian one is also broken for me
I think I left it as it was ... but I installed with a d-i beta,hi
which version of X are you using?
latest one in warty. I did a fresh installation
from daily or sounder?.a net install?
daily from yesterday
ok
wait a second and I will tell you the version (booting)
ok
the keyboad problem I have in text mode is also present with XFree
i didn't read the backlog on irc...,i was only checking "my bugs"
4.3.0.dfsg.1-6ubuntu15
logout from X and on console do: xresprobe nv
yes, and it's also present in the configuration file
just a second....can you put your X config somewhere on the web so i can tell you what to check?
you have it attached to the bug report
remove all the @60 from Modes,sorry.. starting from scratch
done, same problem, it does not starts
yes.. just a second :-)
fixed,thank you
ok.. to summarize
do you want acces to the iMac?
no thanks :-)
anything I could do to help you with the FBDev problem?
i will ask in future if i will need
a cosmetic bug...,I see my screen pink when X starts (until I see the normal X background)
otherwise.. if you have time.. check /var/lib/dpkg/info/xserver-xfree86.config,search fro FBDEV,and try to run the same routine manually and see where it fails,hmmm i am not sure i can do much about the pink,probably it's just a driver cosmetic bug...,thanks a lot for your detailed report
ok, thank you,seems like the compilation is stalled at:,seems like the nv driver works without problems in my iMac,if you want the driver I could send you it I didn't saw it's 2MB long... (I sent it to the mailing list, but I asked to discard it)
thanks, can you put it on chinstrap?.or anywhere on the web that i can grab it?
you have it  at /home/carlos 
thanks,thanks.. i will let you know and it is going to be easier this time :-)


ping
pong
yeah,it doesn't look like I did de-mouse my house after all :-(  there's a second one,can't, have a dog and he'd eat it,so was using glue traps -- it worked, I thought I'd caught it,I didn't realise there was a *second* one,and it's clever, it hid for a few days so I'd take the traps away thinking there was only one
: you need to call the exterminator guy..:).: ?
trust me, you're better off *not* understanding my sense of humour
: ok ;),: false,: lemme check,: drwxr-xr-x    6 pooh     pooh          336 Sep 14 19:01 Desktop,: yes there is.
only thing I can suggest is killing nautilus, and seeing if it comes back equally strange


yeah, the cow trampoline one is cool, though kim wanted other animals,I have sounder 8 here
yeah yeah.. I gave daniels my only cd, and then the iso got corrupted
they should all have been delivered
never seen a disk
mako@canonical.com
and 120 cd's is sort of hard to miss,woops, 160 even,ahh well, no use sending them now I guess.. may as well just wait for hoary,they were actually for give-away for LUV.. ahh well
does xev tells you anything when you press the keys?,if xev detects them, gnome can handle them
: i'd love to see thos messages, however a proper adaptor (this is a gift from a relative of the US) would be only tommorow :)
:-)


: security wise, we do not support pkgs with priority "optinal", section "net".: ?,: nm. wrong section. disregard.: could you tell me what you think about DSA-102, fixed/not ?
I expect that (1) they belong in restricted, and (2) may need some overrides love before they get there...
: thanks.,: still, i have manually to compile to kernel moudle? we should have nvidia ready k images
lamont.jones@canonical.com,apt-get install linux-kernel-2.6-686 or whatever,preview...  and then we do this all over again in October for the final 4-10
: sorry, wasn't here, what were you saying?
no clue now..,who doesn't??? :-)
it has to have a port open in order to receive the DHCP replies from the server
but then surely it can close the thing and be done with till its lease expires?
unless I'm totally wrong in my interpretation of the DHCP state transition diagram in rfc2131 it would be correct within the protocol to close the socket when in the BOUND state.which dhcp client are you using?,On the CD, not installed by default, not copied by archive-copier by default, explicitly marked as something like 'ubuntu-artwork-human' sounds like a good plan to me.
then why put them on the cd at all?
Because synaptic can then ask for the CD if the user opts to install it,It seems a pity to force people to download it; but I guess having it in the archive but not on the CD might be safer for getting the CDs imported into strict countries.
calendar requires download anyhow for ongoing update each month
ping
yes?
xdpyinfo is probably the command you want
the output is correct,yeah.. 
apparently Keith reckons the new X extensions will get rid of the need for Xinerama,since you'd be able to composite windows from one screen to the other
we will see after switching to x.org :-)
I don't know if it is possible yet though ...,it does open up a number of possibilities though, such as dynamically changing the relative positions of the screens
well right now the hardcoded position of the screen is a (quite) simple barrier to kill
hmm.is it ok if i rsync the archive off of ftp.no-name-yet.com?
archive.ubuntu.com may well prove to be more stable,(that's the ...canonical... location, anyway) ;-),1.5/1 is just greedy :-),7 houra
ditto,i got the same error as mdz,ahh, no,our packet shaper is harming me,i think i might just rsync it


morning.izit?
we can only hope.. *grin*,heh
true, but sudo has been pretty damn reliable for me; never seen it die except when the binary gets nuked by disk corruption.talked about that, what happens when the user changes his password?
re: sudo and corruption: true.. but what if (and this is my whole point).. there is a security bug in sudo. they rush to release a fixed package, and in the process it breaks something for the majority of users, but not the developer who tested it (eg: a lib dependency).. suddenly, you have lots of non-working systems
well, this assumes that the distribution doesn't test at all, either. but yes, i understand what you're saying, but the same could happen with PAM and a stack of other things
true.. but we don't want to put in too many layers, else it's a testing nightmare.. (ie: lots of variables),no, I'm not saying giving root a password is the right thing, but it's one way to attack the issue (as I see it anyway),tsk tsk.. he doesn't pull them out of daniels' arse.... tho I think daniels does.. *grin*
*g*
then again, most of what daniels does is like that.. *coughapache2cough*
don't i flippin' know it. "hi, i've done a new release, and it uses this whole new packaging system",i think i still have the email ;P
heh,one of these days, I'll consider getting the sparc I have online,if only for the novelty value
hips bad? we'll take it back or negoiate some money,oh yes,we did a 3 hour spheil with the last one,yeah, we're not going to be playing the first-refusal game with 'pet' contracts,i might do it with show contracts, but we've not been looking for show contracts yet, want to see how this litter turns out,the people we did stud service at want her back tho, they loved her attitude.
: aren't all needed nvidia packages in universe?.or restricted ?
oh, they might be,i didn't look.


hey, would it be worth adding a wrapper around apt-get in the after first reboot stage, so that people aren't staring at a boring apt display of packages being downloaded from archive.ubuntu.com ??,freeze = fix bugs
sure, that's why I put the :-) there
from what you're describing, you're fixing a bug
just kidding,yes, #1151 is a bug, but it's only 'major',but I think the food will be cold and rotten until it arrives in Germany, let alone Brazil :-((
and I'm in Australia.. *8-(
oops, sorry, mixed that up. But same argument .can we have apt-get install food-replicator for hoary?,good night,I just tried, failed,worked fine before the conference
I didn't forgot the NM process, I will try to finish it this week (and this time it will be true :-P)
good to hear :-),there's no mic in the mixer
does the ibook's microphone work for you ?
oh, I never tried that out,I did unter sid, though, and it worked there
did you changed anything by hand?
I will try, just booting the iBook...,ugh, for sid I had to tweak many things....what happens at your system? it records silence or the device cannot be read from?
the device does not exists
I have a control, two pcm and a timer device,audio recorder does something, but I don't hear anything on playback.^ ??
hey Keybuk, all.think we should have gone for "winsome warthog" instead of "warty"?,yo seb128
no way, warty has style.do you think I can get access to an amd64 to fix a gnu-smalltalk ftbfs ?
not one of our buildd's, sorry, rulez
thats fine, had to ask.
!!!
???,because epiphany sucks.
hi guys,I'm just trying to spot a netboot image to feed my tftp monster
i am using it with no problem.. do you need a url?
please
you will need pxeboot, vmlinux and the initrd.gz,also. on the tftpd box you will need more settings.,if you want to use tftp boot you will need pxeboot and 2 files i mentioned above
sweet, bootx0rd


hrmn, a little more help?.anyone know a way to copy stuff on this laptop off before I blow it away?,it has an ntfs partition that's broken, but contains useful things,and no cd-rom
dd ?
I need a network util
knoppix, or perhaps ubuntu's livecd
did I mention the no cdrom bit? 
ahh good point.. hrm.. doesn't sound promising.self-signed cert?
hrmn, a little more help?.anyone know a way to copy stuff on this laptop off before I blow it away?,it has an ntfs partition that's broken, but contains useful things,and no cd-rom
nc.what have you got on there? floppy? usb?
nc, ta
boot a usb key linuxy thing, and dd over nc or something,strangely, i managed to infect the ubuntu gang with the work 'rock' in a totallydifferent context
will you have a ubuntu CD tonight?
yeah, it's being sorted
did you get my new planet.py?
yeah, will look in a while,yes please,particularly in supported,may fix, expecially with patch :).oh, swh-plugins is not built?,that's most likely the problem,unfortunately, that was changed :|,now it prompts you,going to bug markmc about it
are the build bot pages accessible to me for these situations?
not yet, i don't think,i would prefer the panel to work like that by default, to some extent ;)
got around to installing the preview CD on jaime's laptop last night
how'd it go?,might be good to try a recent daily
url?
cdimage.ubuntulinux.org/daily/ -> you can rsync too, which will be better
is there a netboot image? the tablet has no CD-ROM, remember
um...,no, but if you're using that, it shouldn't matter
shouldn't matter because it will fetch everything interesting anyway?
yeah
does the ubuntu kernel have any funky patches applied?
not... amazingly funky
such a bug exists, intermittently


do it.,if it fixes half the printing crash bugs.
huh?  how much memory is your panel taking?
i think it was at least 10+mb,im on a memory constrained machine
now, do you want to learn about memory management and try again? :p,on my machine, gnome-panel is using about 110KB
perhaps i was reading the wrong thing then,in any case it was something in gnome, minus nautilus, that was doing it
the three biggest maps in gnome-panel are:
xfce uses gtk
dunno ... had you done a massive upgrade?  That can temporarily increase your disk and memory usage.why the downgrade?
i've got a unified filesystem across our entire computing environment -- homedirectories are mounted on woody machines, solarris machine, etc.,i have to continue to support woody as i upgrade


or would if it didn't get cancelled by connex
why do we need to test todays images,I just started rsync,ah.so when are we expecting this new CD image?,I don't understand.. you're regular expression isn't terminated
Yall know samba-common.config is busted?
fix was uploaded a few moments ago
spiffy
yes, in the pipeline
| mdz: http://bskahan.etria.com/
bruce made the expectation that UL was somehow more than debian, which, as it turns out, it is not.,(see the wiki, that was kinda the idea)
uphill...,heh,we should have started 3 years ago,the light rail line here is still nearly 2x of estimated rides per month.,after two months,will get more interesting 6-12 months out if its still happening.,Developers: Solaris 10 to be Open Source,http://news.com.com/'Open+Source+Solaris'+to+debut+this+year/2100-7344_3-5364052.html,heh,yay for the mysterious future on /.
great news.alsamixer shows it?,it isn't windows, dude
i know, didn't wokr anyhow :)


nite all
soon == 2005, iirc.,street grade meth is scary though.
I'd be guessing that too...
I'm not the contact for the channel anyway...  I'll poke.
PING,jeff says you are a wanker, but still loves you
WTF?
jeff just paid you out to debsig,gave you crap,!!!!,(or thom) - the canonical wiki is broken,http://www.warthogs.hbd.com -> 403


ah, ok
: was an auto custome ubuntu build script done yet? (you rememebr we talked about)
I'm sorry, I don't know what you mean
: you told me how you tear apart an iso, update it and then remake it.
I'm afraid I'm far too busy with the warty preview at the moment
: ok, i can try have a go at this, i don't remember who suggested i'd take it as a challange :).: new daily will be announced on the list?
maybe :-)
: you devil :-)).: the public review iso is ready for testing?
you can test whenever you like, the preview is not ready though,trust me, it will not be quiet when it's released
: i don't mind it not being supported, I'm pretty english lover but for sake of correctness :)
haven't reproduced your error though
: strange, i did it with 2 consecutive buidls. maybe it's fixed by some other part of d-i that got fixed?,: haha,: (for your last line)
at what point in the install?
: at the very "CHoose a lanugage" point
huh, that's odd, I haven't really changed much around there, and nobody else would have been changing that,if you can still reproduce it, you might want to look for errors on the fourth virtual console
: i will
anything interesting in the syslog?,assuming you haven't rebooted, otherwise /var/log/debian-installer/syslog
: kbd-chooser : cannot open file none , when setting keymap,: error code 1
interesting, that didn't happen to me,if you could put that in the bug I'd appreciate it, and will revisit after preview
: amazingly, it didn't happen on the QEMU test. lemem run another qeumu test
if you have anything like a USB keyboard, then please mention that
: i do!,: ok,: no thank you :)
perfectly normal while bootstrapping
: can't find what causing this. ah well, probably my system only.: around?
yes
: i vi'd /etc/apt/sources.list , that's why install hung up,: on the other tty
let us release first, please :-)
: ofcourse :),: yeah, well, guess i missed that on the mailing list,: i just finished burninig!
the schedule was public
: i know, didn't pay attention - my fault :)
rsync lies a lot
: yep. it keeps coming and going,: my local file,: :).: rsync://archive.ubuntu.com/cdimage/daily/20040915.3/warty-i386.iso  is right?
use /daily/current/, but yes
: ok, off to burnung,: archive structure updates? "77% [7 Packages gzip 0]  [9 Sources 23027/166kB 13%]                  75.1kB/s 1s
that looks like a broken download to me
: it's when apt-get updating, not from cd
cdimage.ubuntu.com::cdimage/releases/warty/preview/warty-i386.iso.old wiki?
: hmm, now there's ubuntu.com right?
the old one is just the same, different name that's all
: you'd send the mailing list an email with all new links and stuff?
others are working on announcements
: is there anything known about yesterday's daily not finishin install?,: I got "ld got spanwed to quickly" again,
not been paying much attention to dailies I'm afraid, I'd be somewhat amazed if anything significant had changed since warty preview release though,note that the daily builds haven't been being synced recently anyway, due to problems with the torrents
:  where can i get the log of pkg installations ?
what do you mean?
: well, i've gone past base install ok,: i just want to see some evidance to what happend on the logs files,
/var/log/messages then; if you've already rebooted, /var/log/debian-installer/messages and /var/log/base-config.log
: i'll  mail you the results, so far i havn't managed to found evidance to what happened on the logs ilfes,: what kind of cables ? :),: rsync is proven to do that sync thingy good right? (I try to speculate if this is something wrong with the iso download)
rsync's fine
: i'll rsync back to release then..: hi, whassup?
nope, it's still there
: I had congiured succesfully my iTouch 2.2 thingy. all multimedia button working in xine :).: this is the partitoner bug?
you know as much as I do from reading the above :P
: I checked it several times using both the preview and a daily, seemed to worked fine :-0,: that package should have depended on that lib
it's not required for all functionality in that package
: only for GTK support?
that's why it's a recommends
: meaning that ncurses interface would work fine..ok
I bet that filesystem is mounted noexec.
: how do you ,: hit bullseye everytime ? ;-_
bitter experience :),/var/lib/dpkg/available is corrupted, run 'dselect update' to fix
: updated. (replaced).: am I better off using dselect instead of apt-get/aptitude ?
'dselect update' is a very specific use of dselect to update /var/lib/dpkg/available
: so it's not much suitable for everyday usage of install/remove/purge
you can't give somebody a single command to install a package using dselect
: how  many commands are needed to install something using dselect?
it's an interactive interface, not a command,no,try using the interface before asking more questions :-)


looking at www.babytux.org/articles/howto/how2livecd.php...A live cd of warty could be cool...
uh, we have one of those...
Would it help any if I said it worked in rescue mode but not normal mode?,Same here.


oh.is that easy to fix?,it would be nice if that worked for preview,hmmm,what I'm unsure of with the l-r-m metapackage is how it should sync up with linux-source,maybe linux-source should build all the metpackaages
: i have aptitude tell me that linux-image is installed 2.6.8 , but it's using 2.6.7
check /boot/grub/menu.lst perhaps?
: you were right about the menu.lst sorry for that, however what about device mapper errors "dm-linear" device not found (about a dozen of them) and Buffer IO read error on hdX (also a dozen)
has it ever worked on that system?,http://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/
: thanks.: hw_radom succeds loading only when detecting a RNG on the system?
if it is not silent, then it is good
: well it's not. and the dsp thingy god fixed notime :)
mazel tov
: toda! you speak hebrew???? :-)
no :-)
: where are you announcing?,: ubuntu-devel=sounder ? 
sounder=ubuntu-users
: this channel is also for development discussions, or there will be a special channel for this?
currently yes, but we will probably split out into a separate channel sometime soon,considering that the population here has exploded :-)
: ahh, that's mighty good! as more users we have, the better we get!.: is there a sounder cd anymore?,: ahh, that'd be put better that way: Where is the the spec for the new cdimage structure? :).: is there a package to install bitorrent in warty?
the package is named, quite unsurprisingly, 'bittorrent' :-)
: hmm , tried that a couple of times, well what do you know? my shaky typing is to blame again!,: :),: that can be added to a patched version of d-i, to create the suspend partition etc,.: is #277 still on?,: i having trouble reproducing..,: i have upgraded an hour ago, still no go at printing. tried even to remove the printer and recreate it
usb printer or parallel?,please note it in the bug
: ok :) off to the bugzilla .: no admin allowed at the cups web interface?
that is correct
: bug opened
bug commented
: gush you're quick :),: commented back.: about #255402, have you merged it inside warty already?
rlpr is in universe
: I'm trying to streamline universe also, I started with lamont,: lamont's universe remaining list, will go backward
if you can identify the fixed version in unstable, we can import it
: there a fixed version in woody, and it seems you have already send debian the patch :)
yes, it still has not been fixed in unstable :-(
:  well, lets fix it ourselves! :) merge it :),: couple of packages could be fixed with mere sync in from sid. i'll send the finsihed list when i'm done.
thanks
: regarding #255402, we can just as well repackage the upstream (which is fixed) right?
does anybody knows the /etc/init.d/ script file for ftpd ?,name that is
it's run from inetd
: oh
it's not a repo, it's just a directory.
: for unspported stuff ?
nah, for misc stuff, like the key which is used to sign the releases and such..what happens if you do that, then?
pitti : it has "defaults" on /etc/fstab,pitti : it's an XFS / filesystem


still want 2.8 screenshots?,ala the #gnome topic
a screenshot of 2.8 in ubuntu would be cool ;)
got two of em...one of em with the ubuntu theme 
hrm,that might not be so great (given we're turning it all off) ;-),send 'em anyway ;)
ye got two,oh? ahhh


lamon : isn't it wise to leave one for sake of checking sid packages etc?
I only have the one desktop, and one laptop.  Those are warty.,I think he's going straight to the ISO,unless you're getting > 200Mbyes/sec, I expect that number will change as rsync discovers blocks it needs to actually transfer
: maybe something is wrong here, it just finished
shouldn't be that much diff, but X did change....,or bad burn,prerelease,my list was very specific: kde blockers that hadn't built anywhere.,and that's done.
: evolution is better?
and she's been using moz-mail for some time, and is kinda happy with it.  learning curves are bad for my non-tech wife...
: :),: send her back to moz-mail, it's nicer :
what's a good doc site for evo?
: i'd figure searching over novell's doc would be good, however I havn't used their doc repo.,: as they are now supporting (owning) ximian
ok. tnx
: heya, whassup?
about to run off for a few hours, otherwise not much...
: oh, well i myself havn't been feeling too well the last couple of days, so i'd come in and out ;-(.: did your wife managed with evolution? or had you put here back in the known land of mozmail?
dunno
: haha,: that needs to happen from time to time ;)


also ath, ath_hal, net80211
what is net80211?
kamion: you did change the messages directly in the installer packages? no central translation file as for the current debian installer packages? daf just mentioned the existance of such a central file.
for some languages, at least,Christian has given individual teams the option of using the new system,although I think by far the majority have taken it up
ok, but this was after the point we did fork the installer packages from unstable?


ping
the firmware stuff for tg3's is automatic
ahh, ok,i got the disk space to fully mirror the cd images too i think


but i'll be back home at about 1000 UTC,maybe a bit later,so they just look unoriginal AND silly,yeah, my bad
dude?,I need to talk to you re: libburn. The sooner the better!
er,i already /msg'ed you -- xor@fd.o,also derek@fd.o
ah, got lost in the blackout reboot then,thanks
no worries.sup?
dude these guys down answer me. I'm being ignored!
i dunno, i've not talked to them much, sorry
oooh dude
not as such -- what's up?
in the local mailing lists webpage, it might be worth adding a note about Catalan.,you guys tell me how acceptable this is from the Ubuntu perspective: we had a short debate wether a ubuntu-ca would be useful, and most people agreed that debian-user-catalan was more than enough to support ubuntu too
talk to jdub about it.sup bitch?,i have been running a fair bit
have you? That's great!
running around copenhagen ... nice city
I get to see you in Catalunya next month?
in where?.mataro/barcelona?,yeah, I'll be there
cool I can climb your back again
heh
are you in the UK or what?
yah
cool.Kamion: is ubuntu using alsa-base at all?
really?  i have a via8233 and it works fine with alsa
it's just a very specific revision of the chip,let me dig a URL
ahr, that sucks
https://bugtrack.alsa-project.org/alsa-bug/view.php?id=118,I wish I could find the "datasheet" :).doh, realyl?
oh cool, so you speak Valencian, yeah?,well, not Catalan


Hi, I'm back
: hi again !
morning
: a new daily?
yes, new daily, but the final CD is late,one reason is certainly that there are still two blocker bugs open
: numbers?
#1203, 1238,this is a stone-aged version
: i still had to modprobe nvidia ,: even on 15.2 
me too.
: that needs to be added to to pkg postinst script,: echo "modprobe nvidia" > /etc/modules" ? :)
use >> please
: oopsy 
http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/warty/preview/,add /cdimage/ for rsync
: i want something to work with rsync
rsync -zPv rsync://cdimage.ubuntu.com/cdimage/releases/warty/preview/warty-i386.iso works
is here? :).: still working on mounting bugs?.: what about permissoin? have all possibilities exhusted?
which permissions?
: strange, I never needed to assign uid nor gid to be able to use my stick rw
it's required for hfs/hfsplus devices,also for cdroms
: oh
it maps the root user to the given uid/gid,so only the user who plugged it in can write onto the device
: i know, i am using it for ntfs,: although I can relax this, as NTFS is mounted ro here anyways.
could you recover your system?.did you find out why dpkg breaked?
: Not yet ;( have been busy with a SCSI server I am trying to build, do you know anything aboud it?
no, sorry
: anyway, I will try mouting the XFS / partition see if I can grab any log from there for the dpkg segfault.: still around?
of course!,just waiting for two packages to get built
: ok, let's see what happend to my dead warty,: i will try now to mount the XFS parts from here (debian sid),: I have to load the XFS Module into the sid system...,: where would I find any logs for dpkg breaking up? ,: any idea why I can't log anymore? seems like system paths have changed or somethng.,: I couldn't even ALT+CTRL+DEL "cannot find /sbin/shutdown"
a $PATH problem?,forget it, it already contains the patg
: what?,: I don't know where to start investigating this problem...,: I'd hate reinstalling again..
can you chroot to the ubuntu partition?
: yes, sec.,: chroot /mnt/ubuntu0.?
does it work?
: chroot: cannot run command `/bin/bash': Permission denied
ls -l /bin/bash,just install the package "hal-device-manager"
: -rwxr-xr-x  1 root root 604108 2004-09-27 23:09 /mnt/ubuntu0/bin/bash,: I can't,: I can even log into the syste.,: I can't chroot,: all I did was aptitude update/upgrade.
without being chrooted, can you execute /mnt/ubuntu0/bin/bash?
: bash: /mnt/ubuntu0/bin/bash: Permission denied
'mount' -> what does it say?
: kamion's right
ugh, trivial solution...
: chrooted. what's next?
I thought that was it? Well, check /etc/fstab
: ok, maybe the noexec option is propogated thyere?
if you can do stuff in the chroot, it should work as well when booted.do you use 'defaults'?,if not, you have to supply exec
: wait, i'll check the fstb on the warty,: listen to this: I tried apt-get update this is what I get:,: Fetched 4237kB in 1m16s (55.6kB/s)
well, it finishes configuring the packages that weren't because it was somehow interrupted,please repair your packages (with dpkg --configure -a, apt-get -f install, etc.) until a normal apt-get upgrade works
: k,: tigershark:/# dpkg --configure -a
oh, I also had this error once, but that was years ago
: well, even if I installed from an old daily, it should let me update ok to go to a better version no?
yes, in any case,me too, I could never get used to aptitude and stuff. dselect rocks
: you never told me you used dselect, you always told me "apt-get ....this and that" ;-)
yes, if you know which package you need, apt-get isntall is the fastest and easiest method
: ok, and if I don't I just use dselect's task selection?
dselect does not handle tasks IIRC. Either use apt-cache search or press '/' in dselect to search sth.what was your question?
ok, I'm trying to add a second etherent card to a freind's r40e latop, now when I plug the PCIMCA card, hal can see it,however, when ifup/down and ifconfig -a , I can't see it - I added the right enteried to eth1,s/eth1/interfaces/,do you know if you need to do anything other then that to make it work? (it works in XP)
can you put your /etc/network/interfaces somewhere?.ifconfig does not display it?
I'll check, the machine cannot have network currently so I may need to use a usb key or something,gemme 10secs,http://muse.19inch.net/~sivan/interfaces , the eth1 entries I added by hand,including the "map eth1" entry
that looks odd - there is no eth0 nor eth1,oh, ok, eth1 is there,try adding "wireless-mode managed" to ath0
eth0 as well "iface ath0 inet dhcp"
please clean up ath0 vs. eth0 and try the wireless-mode
you mean, to try using only the ath0 with wireless mode?
yes.does manual ifconfig work?
hmm, I didn't try , I will try that as well.what if I want to have only regular non wifi PCIMCA card for eth1 ?,(that is waht I currently try to test, as start)
I don't understand the question
I don't want to use ath0 anymore, just regualr wired connection through eth1.thing is, that when I try ifup eth1 it tells me device does not exist, do you think its due to the messiness of the file currently?
as long as "ifconfig eth1 <ip> up" does not work, ifup can't do better
ok, I will check and report back,http://muse.19inch.net/~sivan/interfaces, still cannot up the intereface. I think some other defitiontions need be done for ifconfig to be able to bring up the interface.,http://muse.19inch.net/~sivan/lspci-v.txt.maybe you have an idea?
err, is 20040914 known to be broken?,kamion: I just got a "downloading bsdutils" failed.. I haven't checked the CD yet tho
20040914 worked fine for me
blink it does?
it needs to be moved into main
you think?
are you fixing it?,thank you
i wouldnt call that special
note that the partitioner is the same in Debian Sarge, so it's not like Ubuntu is using anything just specific to it.
hey, couple of questions - aren't we meant to have some ssh-askpass-gnome love kick in automatically?.and, a) does 'About Ubuntu' work for anyone/is it meant to?, b) What's this 'Start here' icon all about?
About Ubuntu opens firefox with no-name-yet in it for me (works)
how do you mean not a tty?  like if I used it in nautilus or something? 
like if you use cvs-over-ssh from in emacs vc mode.will you have a chance to process pending Debian syncs soon?
err, anything other than gsfonts?
not that I see
done - didn't do it at the time 'cos it hadn't hit ftp.uk
thanks,https://bugzilla.no-name-yet.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1205.hmm, you have a powerpc machine, mind testing the unmute script?
sure one sec,hmm, I have sound compiled in :-/
rm /var/lib/alsa/asound.state && reboot :-).maybe??,hotplug supports /etc/hotplug*.agent types of things,please file the caps lock thing in bugzilla and assign to Herbert
would some sort of /proc/cpuinfo based powerbook.agent hack be a reasonable stopgap ?
probably the most reasonable fallback for Warty would be to avoid the kernel entirely and let d-i/hwdetect add it to /etc/modules
dude, that means it's kamion's problem.. result ;-)
for base, you mean?
well that too,ok, I just got the wrong impression from earlier then, that's fine,it's what he talked about on thephone
yes,he's talking about the name of the product
huh?
the bugzilla Product, "WartyWarthog"
err, if you're talking about "yeah for like 8 hours dude", I was responding to jdub's earlier, "it's been on the previewreleasezeroday webpage" comment
oh,and you hassle me for responding to things out of order :-P
ping, Bugs: override, or does it not matter anymore?
um, yes
where _to_ then?  you guys were going over several different options...
sounder@lists,I thought I was explicit in #1080,or whatever sounder@lists is getting renamed to
dude, I'm at Mark's, that so not possible :P
ok, any _supplementary_ crap :-P
the circle with arms?
ha ha ha
(btw, the plan in asking on the channel was to stop Mark from doing it - if you end up doing it, it's sort of counter-productive :)
nopeo,the first time the browser hits a site, it'll look for it,as long as you'll be awake to rip it out if something happens, I'm happy to leave it in
I had my 3 hours sleep, I'm good
?,it hasn't run as root for weeks,do you actually _run_ warty? :-P
nah, it's lame, I'm an OS X man now.?,might be good to keep the dirs consistent tho


hey, couple of questions - aren't we meant to have some ssh-askpass-gnome love kick in automatically?.and, a) does 'About Ubuntu' work for anyone/is it meant to?, b) What's this 'Start here' icon all about?,oh, and c) is anyone else seeing mozilla-firefox break hideously on initial run?  it asks for a profile, and if I just try to click past it, it says some madness like 'can not use profile 'default' as it's already in use',actually, scratch (c), can't reprouce that now,b lah, and (a).. clearly should get some sleep,ah, ok.. I thought it might do it the first time I tried to ssh somewhere which would accept the key.that'd be kind of nice?
mf??,just wget'ed both http://wiki.ubuntu.com/FrontPage and http://sounder:oink@wiki.ubuntu.com/FrontPage just fine
cool, thanks
about how long until auckland is up-to-date, I wonder?
hey, couple of questions - aren't we meant to have some ssh-askpass-gnome love kick in automatically?.and, a) does 'About Ubuntu' work for anyone/is it meant to?, b) What's this 'Start here' icon all about?
start here?!.did you just do a fresh install?
no, this is my laptop I installed a while ago, but only started really using as a desktop today.. all symptoms have been reproduced after dist-upgrade tho
start here was once created by nautilus on first-startup
okay, so won't be a problem for new users and guess there's not much that can be done about it now
(for instance, if you run ssh-add from the 'run application' dialogue, yeah),(then it will use ssh-askpass-gnome to prompt you),but if you go into the sessions dialogue, you can set it to run ssh-add when you start gnome.can we rename it to 'Ubuntu Wiki'?
where?,k,done
thanks.seb can you make that change in gnome-panel?,i disabled the dimming thing at one point
is DMA turned on ? :)
1400 UTC, see WartyWarthog/PreviewReleaseDayZero
yeah, for like 8 hours dude
hrm?
nm
there is no vim-tiny,good lord,sleep well :)
what about mirrors?
mdz: ?
how, by staying up all night? :P


what i wrong with ephy?,i don't love but i'm growing to love it.  the one feature i miss i'm this far: |   | from implementing myself
which feature?
'lo all.,Been out of the loop for a while, any reason why apt updates are crawling along at a few bytes/s while rsync seems to get full bandwidth (from my side at last).
broken proxy between you and the website?,hmm, well, it works here, I can max out Mark's 2Mb link
Thanks, just wondered whether it was pinched your side for some or other reason.
yep, do now,cool
what installer bug?
when manually editing a partition
I think that's probably a red herring,I can believe that it ignores the size regardless ...


ooo!,npmccallum: ,ergh,check the headers, see which email addresses they are coming from
ok
do you want gentoo or canonical to remain?
canonical, yes,thanks
several typos in that announcement; shall I fix?
yes,it might be a makoism
changed,hm, I haven't
go try to break it,http://shipitl.no-name-yet.com,http://shipit.no-name-yet.com
if passwords don't match, it seems to lose the country I entered


add in supplicant support while you're at it
i'll second that
he types about dhcp in his sleep.what'd it do to you?


thought of swapping in gamin next time?
yes.seems like a bios problem, no?.boot with acpi=off?
that works
bug please, with dmesg output, BIOS manufacturer/version/date?,I don't see why not; please file a bug
sure.who to assign to?
I'll take care of that,Computer->Desktop Preferences->Sessions->Startup Programs
i can make it run keychain there,yes.. i cant source the resulting file into the environment from there it seems
could you add a note to the bug to that effect?
can you help me with a development question
if it's not specific to ubuntu, #debian-devel is probably a better place
have you tested your mythtv stuff on ubuntu much?
I was just about to, actually,I'm going to start distributing ubuntu packages for it
hm, missing a few deps in main universe
hmmm?
any luck with myth?
yeah, builds clean
:)
waiting for build-deps, and then it'll go into universe
if you manage to get mythtv in, im going to move my pvr box to ubuntu
DimSum: don't get too attached to the theme either way; it's entirely temporary :-)
do you have a thought on a link from http://www.ubuntulinux.org/support/documentation/faq/ to the nice faq on the wiki? or possibly merging them in the future.
read the top of the wiki page; the wiki content is periodically flushed to the website.are you just waiting for someone to upload the packages?
i think so, im very unclear on the process
there's a lot going on, but I seem to recall discussing this with jdub and there being agreement that the packages should go in
he mentioned it again a few days ago
ok, let's take care of that RFN
mono, maybe gtk-sharp are in but old
I don't see a mono source package in that dir,so far I have monodevelop_0.5.1-3 and tomboy_0.1.2-2 from your repository
ok
please confirm which packages are needed from sid, and which versions you tested with
need anything else before I sleep?
still here?
hi guys.  i'm trying to update stuff with synaptic.  it downloads everything ok, but gets stuck at the terminal output: "Extracting templates from packages: 9%" which only a ctrl-c gets out of.  is this a known bug?
never encountered that one ...
will check,nup, apt-get dist-upgrade hangs at the same place.
big hammer time: strace -f -o /tmp/apt.trace -s 1024 apt-get dist-upgrade, mail me /tmp/apt.trace
seems to be a debconf problem actually.  I got:
you don't still have base-config running in another window or something?
doesn't look like it, no,mdz: thanks for the pointers - i'll look into it and get back if it keeps on like this


is there a good reason to ommit ipod support from the rhytmbox builds?
it wasn't ready by the time we froze. we'll probably have it for the next release. :)
great show :)
do you want to post your repositories to ubuntu-devel?
this is my first time working with debs in several years,so.. it might take awhile :)
ok ;).are you building from universe sources or from debian sid?
from sid
ok,(kinda necessary for the latest mono-based apps, but if you have fixes for the packages in universe, we can fix them)
im fetching the sources from sid, and rebuilding against ubuntu basically..
yeah
i got it mate.,running muine now
sweet :),daniel is on a plane atm, btw ;)
i need help setting up an apt repo,im just doing dpkg -i,ping
pong
can i msg you for a minute or so?
sure,radness :),no, there's no dvdcss support,but if you install totem-xine (universe) and libdvdcss (available on the web) you can watch dvds
great, thanks
rad!.had to use libgtkhtml3.0?
hmm i dont believe so
it's in universe, later libgtkhtml3.x packages are in main
i have libgtkhtml3.0-4
Filename: pool/universe/g/gtkhtml3.0/libgtkhtml3.0-4_3.0.10-1_i386.deb
are you guys planning a smaller server install at any point?.prelink you mean?
no, not prelink,linker hashtable optimisation,yeah, there's a bug in the icon usage there atm,you shouldn't need the latext libxml foo for mono stuff
the libgtksourceview-cil package wants it
you should be able to drop the depends back
how could i downgrade to libxml2 in warty,i think i inadvertantly pulled in a few things from sid, im rebuilding the pkgs w/ more of a clue this time
8)
jesse_132 all the deps should be (correctly) in now, for monodevelop
have you pulled libxml? :)
yessir
i'd prefer not to use an alternative source that replaces stuff in main :).what did you need to change for gtksourceview?
hm, nothing
'cos you've got your own packages in the repo ;),hey, none of your packages require those subversions, you could just remove them from your repo
yeah it seems like when i get something pulled in from sid though,youre wrong,here it is:
what's that?
libgtksourceview-cil,yeah
it ought to build against the -2 subversion
but the dep doesnt seem valid
rocking, yeah, all set :-).around?
yep
have you seen tomboy?
yes
thinking of packaging it? :),might be a simple, first one
hm is there a printable version of the new maint guide
hmm, i don't know,has some mono things
ping
pong
oh hiya,i got a "working" package, i see there is a request in debian bugz,its still a little goofy, ill work on it tommorow..,hey, check out my tomboy package. the dep on newer gtkspell is pretty valid this time, configure script fails on older,hmm the wiki page for universe candidates says its immutable
you need to log in (click UserPreferences)
submitted :)
rocking :)
any proceedure yet from taking requests on UniverseCandidates and moving into universe?,or anything i should add to speed the process up
you're doing myth stuff too? :)
im a myth user, sure
we have to get those in :-).do you have source packages?.or are they easily synced, unchanged, from sid?
unchanged, with the notes i listed on the universe wiki,applied a patch (by hand) to monodevelop, fixed upstream in 0.5.1 now,and had to install mono binary first
ok, we should get this sorted out in universe :)
yes, we should :),stuff ive buildt has wanted a build/ link in /lib/modules/blah to the kernel source
pipka's bday is 20th ;)
man,ping,the howl package doesnt seem to install nifd.see my ? about howl?
nup
it doesnt appear to install nifd
yeah, i skipped some of the bong bits,i'll include them later if there's some requirement,atm, other tools do a better job
people are telling me it needs to be running for this epittance, so i installed it
it should only require mdnsresponder, unless it only works over local link addresses (which would also be entirely bong)
i guess howl in gnome-vfs has to wait for hoary?
what about tomboy/monodevelop?,perhaps we should get tomboy into sid,bug azeem about it :-)
ok, i think my (our) pkg is solid now
if azeem isn't up for it, seb128 might be, or someone else in #gnome-debian,rocking stuff with the tomboy package, btw,dh_netdeps -> woo.got a 0.2.2 package on the way?
yeah maybe tommorow @ tomboy
it's just a misunderstanding
mxpxpod sent me a modded tomboy pkg to use the new jimmac icon
how did he change it?
in the source, not sure
bong :-),wait for upstream :-).have you ever used subethaedit?
nosir
google it ;),p2p tomboy would be like a high granularity (per-page) subethaedit
bong
subethaedit is *awesome*
going that route, it could even tie in with planner,collaborative todo + scheduling
mmm :)
with an e-d-s backend ?
ugh.,you're welcome to fix that
blame bryan anyway, its more fun


anyone tested sound on an sblive? i've got 2 entris on the gnome mixer, the sigmatel and "sblive" when i work on the sblive tab, it's halts sound completly.which one should be the dominating?
i will check next time i boot up the "DVD player" :),but iirc the first one
: works neat out of the box, but the sound preset is bad
my "DVD player" is a linux box with sblive, dual head, tv out and all the nice stuff :-))),but it's turned off right now,Multimedia audio controller: Creative Labs SB Audigy (rev 04)
: supposed to have low latency and shit, cool hardware.: no use to sync?
yes.. but there is a X update.. i am just resyncing the iso
: k,: morning :)
morning :-)
: I've been missing for a week, felt so darn awful..Back now,: xresprobe says 80hz , kill it ? :)
one things at a time :-))) what is the problem?
: I'd like to use my FLATRON 795FTplus (dunnon what the plus is for ;) ) 100Hz vert ref ,: having tried several times with the XF86COnfig-4 file,
ok..can you give me the full output from xresprobe?
: id:,: i see now it didn't return nothing for "freq"
now, did you edit your X config file manually?
: i first tried with dpkg-reconfigure,: when these didn't give any wanted results, I resorted to manually try diffrent combinations of freqs manually
ok. that's not the best way to do things...
: when I listed the 85Hz in one of the lists, it would always use it
now. let's try to make things working again
: they are working :) but not 100Hz
LCD panels have one resolution and (basically) one frequency set. All the other stuff is "fake",show me the Freq and Vert line
: it's not LCD ;-) This is a FLATRON 796FT plus, a monster CRT :-)).: you'd like the xresprobe output again?
no thanks. just the 2 lines from the config file
: k, hold on a sec,: HorizSync 30-96
ok wait a sec now :-)
: sure, no problemo
btw which version of xresprobe are you using?.and what is the output of ddcprobe?
: lemme check this , and this and well, a sec ;-)
try to set this:,before you set the freq manually, please upgrade xresprobe
: doing that now.,: ofcourse ;-),: ok, xresprobe = ,: ok, xresprobe = 30-96, 50-160
well that's what the monitor tells to the video card,you can try to force higher frequencies but i am pretty sure the driver will discard them
: could you please repeat what you told me to set on the x conf file before?,: ok. lemme check that for a sec.,: xphome telling me that 100Hz is usable is , a fake? gnome won't let me choose higher than 80,: I have a really bad flickering problem, and on "100hz" it vanishes - i really want to try make it work.
please try the freq i wrote before. You will have to restart X completely,these changes need to go in XF86Config-4
: already tried, didn't give much difference. I am restarting GDM as well,: no luck. leaving only "100" on the vert keeps preventing the server from booting,: trying lower value.: is there a way to force a refresh rate once in X ?
one value isn't enough,send me the /var/log/Xfree86.0.log or put it somewhere on the web where i can grab it
: bot appetit
can i see the X logs?
: yes, sorry a sec - i was doing something else,: please hand in your email adrs.: ok, would you like a log produced after it won't accept 100Hz ? or a regular running one with standard range freqs?
boths is better
: ok, you'll have them in 5 minutes..: would it matter if I "$ startx" or log in from GDM?,: ok, preparing you en email with both confs logs, and xresprobe and ddcprobe outpus
ok thanks
: reached you yet?.: has xorg reported to be better (hardware wise support) then XFree86 ?
please use the nv driver,i can't debug the nvidia binary driver.also.. which resolution are you asking to your videocard?,it has "only" 32Mb of ram
: 1024x768 vert 100hz. which used to work on yucksP ;),: i don't ask much ;),: ok, i'll try with the open source driver.: go ?
yes please try the free driver
: darn, i have to disable framebuffer now.: how do I specify in XF86Config-4 that I do not wish to use the framebuffer device?,: nm. found it,: nv driver triggered CRT to non display mode. it went power saving
just a second. we might need the new nv driver. i am upload X right now for it,http://people.no-name-yet.com/~fabbione/nv/i386/,grab these 2 files and copy them into /usr/X11R6/lib/modules/drivers/,and restart X
: i'll add your source ;).: can I add your ppl to my sources.list and have the apt do magic?
no,the same fix will be available in the archive in approx 3 hours
: ok.: what's the fix bug# ?
hold on...,    (Closes: #269025, #268759, #271235, #270228, #271071, #270714),from the Debian BTS,probably more than that
: fabbi, you an italiano? (just saw your AMAZING ubuntu pasta)
hehehe yeah
: you'd better watch out putting pics of this, I might come pay you a visit claim to taste the wonderfull ubuntu_pasta :-)))
welcome to pass by :-)
: what's the pasta's kind? (i know trotalini, raviloli etc)
bucatini alla amatriciana, but that's a special variant i did for the ubuntu release. more spicy than the original ones
: boy, that makes me pasta hungry...:-).: anyways, I copied that files. now what?
restart X
: recreate the 2 log files? one with the range, the other with a specific freq?
does X start?
: yes it does. it currently uses the freq range
ok.. so what is missing now?.is it running at 100Hz?
: no :-( ,: same 85
at which resolution?
: it takes longer for the server to start
because it can easily be a video card limitation
: i have used the same video card, on a xphom inst. and it did 100hz
yes, i know that it takes longer. the 2 files are compiled with debugging support. once you will upgrade to ubunut22 it will take less time,send me the log of the running session and the configuration file
: 1024x768 , 85hz,: ok.: what's the "hack" kind of thing with CRT modes? how come they all have one mode ?
that is for LCD, not CRT. i misunderstood FLAT with LCD
: sent
and the config file?
: on it's way
clearly... either your video card or your monitor do not support 100Hz. xphome lies,otherwise try to reduce the depth to 16 bit and see if that helps
: ok, reduce depth, retry if it makes 98hz?
yes
: well, just to let you know - I tested with xphome, and i have a pretty good OSD for that flatron, whenever I am in ubuntu it says "85Hz"
ok. it might be a limitation of the nv driver,DDC doesn't detect more than 85Hz and there is nothing i can really do to override it,you might want to check man nv and see if there is any option to do that manully. like NoDDC
: Can,: funny thing is, that ddc was disabled on my monitor
if DDC was disabled xrepsrobe would not have worked at all
: then maybe the monitor lies,: ok, ddc is on now. lemme try agian
ok
: ok, ddcprobe gives this among it's other output --> dtiming: 1600x1200@98,: does the @98 means someting ? :)
i told you that the driver doesn't lie!
: no it doesn't. It is a hell of a driver, what could be needed to make it usable as the proprierty one?
only the 3D support :/
: oh. well, why won't them release an api to work with so we can add the support?
that's the stuff they are not releaseing ,otherwise it would be too easy
: i see. Hmm, well, so you suggest to man nv and see if there's an option to use explicit mode?.: and if so, why won't it work in XF86COnfig?
now you need to change the Horiz/Vert frequency entry in X config and restart X
: ok, what values?
the one you get from xresprobe,just re-run it again,and it should get the new freq range,if freq are the same, you only need to restart X to let the driver figures that it can run at 100Hz
: this whole ubuntu thing is like a drug to me :),: ok, the freqs are the same. the server booted. Still 85Hz,: :-))))),: maybe you do need to try get some sleep, I'm concered about you fabbione. We need xorg in hoary :)
it's not like i am the only one that can do X.org ;),you are allowed to credit me for the good stuff and blame daniels for the problems
: ofcourse! you let me know, and I will bang my head against it for as long as I have strangth :_).: daniels is australian right?
yes.. 
fabbione 
I think that NoDDC should do
:X.org compiles on the buildds already?.: on XF86Config ?
no. there is no X.org,yes, just check the manpage for nv
: oh, but it's a feature goal I think I saw on the wiki
correct. it's a feature goal.. but hoary is in 5/6 months...,it's not like i create packages from one day to another ;)
: haha,: Go get this sleep going, don't let it slip away,: I am going for a couple of restarts to test vert freq - brb.: still here?


has canonical hired artists as well, besides hackers?
contracted, yes.,current artwork is temporary.,in the next few weeks, our development branch will open, and all the debian sid love will flow into it :-)
rad
it really is six monthly time based releases of sid :-)
so how are you using sudo to run the admin stuff?
gksudo
is that an ubuntu thingy, or from elsewhere?
it's part of gksu
packaged gamin AFAIK, so hoary will hopefully perform better in this regard
oh?,oh, right, pipermail only does threads to a certain level,and some posters have been breaking threads
don't use daniels as your background singer. He'll probably "back your punchlines" and shout every second word you say again to give it more weigth
man, daniels brings on the bling-bling,wiki.ubuntu.com/WartyWarthog/ReleaseSchedule,i watched a video lecture with totem + polypaudio last night,hooray for reasonable synchronisation :).is there an 'upstream version' variable available in debian/rules?,there's no 'gui' way, you'd have to do it via CUPS
thanks.are you guys applying any extra low-latency-super-responsive patches to the kernel?
no
okie, so it's good enough for anybody else as well =),it's prelinking ;)


don't even
we don't know who you are!
yeah, laptop-detect is noisy, it's been doing that for a while ...,hey Kosai :-)
Hi.  :)  Happy release, if it's happened! 
nearly ...
Ooh, your AMD64 box arrived?
yeah, on Friday
Neat.  I haven't used one before, will have to drop by and worship it a little.
feel free :)
Any idea what happened to the TV?  It is making a burning smell.  :)
hmmmmm
Ooh, which reminds me; any idea which d-i variant would be best for an alpha install?
right now probably daily build
Oh, sid rather than sarge?  Okay.
RC1 might work as long as you use netinst rather than businesscard,that's sarge,(Hm, do you own a copy of Windows? I don't, but borrowing one for testing might be useful ...)
No, don't run it at all, sorry.,I can probably get hold of a CD from lab, if that's useful.
no worries, I'll ask on #chiark to see if anyone has one handy
Ubuntu bugs, or Debian ones?  I can see someone assigning an Ubuntu install bug to base-install instead of debian-installer, thinking that debian-installer is, well, for the Debian one.
Ubuntu bugs, and yeah ...
Or you could change debian-installer to ubuntu-installer.  Or make ubuntu-installer an alias of debian-installer just to help people pick the right component.  Or.
*so* not renaming debian-installer :-)
You mean shotokan?  :),Any luck getting your AMD64 box online?  I can bring home an ethernet cable from work if you're short of one.  :)
hm, let me look around downstairs to see if there's one long enough
What about make uninstall?.Is autoconf rare?
uninstall would be automake, not autoconf,yeah, that's the best workaround,'fraid not,pretty good, hectic :)


it has no link at all,just text
text with the wrong link in it then
s/ubuntulinux.org/ubuntu.com/


the new artwork and color scheme are excellent,no doubt :),I imagine the spiffiness is only begining; rather for me only begining when I saw the zebra print the first time,good luck everyone, time for me to sleep,I also get the 'requested download is not authorized for use' error
well bless your heart for trying! :-)
this might be a question for colin, but are there livecd images someplace, still?
not ones which are suitable for release, which is why they aren't where they used to be,the second one (accent on the middle syllable),that is approximately correct
tends to be all over things, I've noticed


Allo
sure thing.which live cd did you grab? sounder 8?
was your kid sitting out in the car the entire time you were helping me?
I said we didn't release a LIVECD today,I really did feel bad about that though...  OTOH, he was much more relieved that way...
ubuntu hates me!.why does it hate me so?
dunno.  what are you trying to do again?>,could be.,I have LiveCD image and an install image that I can give yo
i tried to install it like 4 times, each time the phiehp.ko and shpch.ko both fzcked up and said fatal errors
yeah - prolly bad burn,will get you a good liveCD in any case.
you mean it will sense my net card this time?
actually, would be interested in seeing if my new liveCD image boots and detects your network card..
this is from the purple disk that you gave me and eric,the one from last week
was that install or liveCD?
install,and why wernt you at jujistu tonight? we did katas
stuck in some fire training that I must makeup before month end
ill be the live cd guinea pig
cool
thank you for the dist
cool.  Now see if it detects your wireless...
nope it cant see wireless
wanna send me details on the card?
you alive?.whhere you been?
spain the last 2 weeks, and otherwise just plain crazyh
oh you gonna go to the lock-in at the dojo? its newyears night
glad to help. :-),I'm generally available to schedule a game...
anyone have any ideas why the installer won't recognize my current partitions?  Currently dual-booting windows (ntfs) and fedora 2 (ext3) but Ubuntu wants to take over the whole disk.  Works on another computer, so it's something with my laptop setup but I don't know what.
the target use model is 'whole disk'...  I'm nearly certain that you can bludgeon it into living with others..,but I'm not sure of the details.
ah okay, thanks
any experience with debian installer?
never tried d-i on this box, ubuntu installs fine on another box known to work with d-i
the installer _is_ d-i, just with a gag in it's mouth... :-)
indeed, but the manual partitioning doesn't recognize my partitions for my laptop, though it does for my desktop -- s'ok, I'm filing a bug report and will shut up now
src is there...
pardon my ignorance, but I'm not sure what component to file the bug under :-/


Morning
you time shifted, or just redefining words? :-)
It's always 'morning' when logging into IRC.did you not bittorrent it yesterday then?
started to, but life was sucky
I know that feeling,quota?!
3.2GB/mo, although I can have all I want at <56kbps.
yeesh
it's a co-op, and given that I'm sharing a single 802.11 link with a bunch of others, I have to agree with that billing model.
aah
18 miles from my house to the hilltop, and then another 6? to the home of the dual-T1's.
meep. That's worse than I used to have. At least I was only 9 miles from the leased lines


/usr/bin/make -C build-tree/xc WORLDOPTS="" IMAKE_DEFINES="-DXFree86CustomVersion='\"Ubuntu 4.3.0.dfsg.1-6ubuntu17 20040915051945 root@localhost.localdomain\"' -DBuildSpecsDocs=NO -DBuildFonts=NO" World > logs/make_world.build.log 2>&1
> logs/make_world.build.log 2>&1
hmm, true, I thought it was only a small portion of the compilation redirected...


poke.
hi
I finished up a ubuntu/ mirror
URL(s)?,alternatively, just add yourself to the wiki :),http really is a lot better for apt, so it'd be nice,well, we update every 30 minutes, but that's not sane until we get a trigger so you don't run unless there's changes.. I gues every hour or two (or three..) depending on how fast your machine, how much you care etc.
did you want resync frequency on the wiki page, or did you just want to know?,i got ftp.cs going for the prevew cdimages.,its still rsyning them


what kinds of problems?
problem with interrupts,like "hdc: lost interrupt"
ah... is it documented somewhere?
mmmh no, if you search for this problem on lists, many owners had this problem :/
What happened to the set of patches that used to be on no-name-yet?
still there,http://www.no-name-yet.com/patches/
Is that linked to from anywhere now?
should be,yes, my debian-legal stole my dfsg shirt just arrived :)
who do I talk to about creating an ubuntu mirror?,thanks
when you've setup, let me know pls
ok,it won't happen for a couple of days, as I have to acquire a machine,but thanks for the info
let me know when you've set it up (james.troup@canonical.com), I'll add you to our mirror list
btw, what's the relationship b/w ubuntu and python? ISTR Mr. Shuttleworth was talking of some more "Python oriented" distro...,hmm, you are not slashdotted yet 
having pervasive python integration is the plan. 
I guess Gnome 2.8 might ease the slashdot effect a little bit when it hits...
 /. effect really isn't that interesting anymore, anyway :-)
that's going to be the most important part for many, I guess. I hope this aspect will be marketed after the gold release at least.rc.d stuff in python?


hmm, can i apt-get upgrade sarge to ubuntu?,i guess it won't be easy ;-)
sarge froze after warty did, so not reliably, although some people have done it
well, I guess that's faq material at least
what are you compiling? everything should be in mplayer?
I have bad experiences with stock debian mplayer
what would you change on your own compile?
I dunno. Perhaps debian mplayer doesn't support all the codecs that can be d/ld from mplayerhq
if you could make a list, we can make sure that it's all in universe
and the stock version couldn't even scale the window properly,I mean, full screen wasn't fullscreen


you should have explained your "strange" versioning scheme in the announcement I guess
it's in th FAQ,right at the top
yeah, I read it.btw, did you get my mail about the canonical contact in Munich?
yes.. this last week has been a little insane.. hopefully with the release out of the way i can catch up on email
sure. I didn't know much more than what I've rean on n-n-y.com though, so the mail is probably highly incoherent...,see seb128's post on -devel


btw, what's the relationship b/w ubuntu and python? ISTR Mr. Shuttleworth was talking of some more "Python oriented" distro...,hmm, you are not slashdotted yet ,I guess Gnome 2.8 might ease the slashdot effect a little bit when it hits...
 this is the one,i think someone subscribed it to gmane,i have no idea, but i thought it was a free service,depends on teh type of politcs we're talking about :),that's a rather complex issue :)
do you have plans to get some ISVs/IHVs on board?,no need to answer if confidential :)
isv/ihv?
what are pool/restricted and pool/universe?
that should be in the faq.
didn't find it then
restricted is the non-free driver blobs
and universe?
main is free stuff, restricted is binary blobs, and universe is everything else (universe is not supported, it just is.),for warty universe is the rest of debian main.  That is expected to grow over time.
okay, thanks.
note that not all of debian/main is there... if it built, it's there.  Much of what didn't built wasn't dealt with.
I see..so pool/main is the packages that get security support etc?
5500+ binary-component-producing source packages, 3 architectures (==16000+ builds), ~500 failures in universe..which packages?
http://lists.debian.org/debian-devel/2004/09/msg00256.html,jeezus,sort of the wrong chan too,tired,crappy.,when we went to the san diego wild animal park it was somehow worse,like 95F,... last july
95F is nice, at least if it's not too humid.,you are exaggerating a bit, though,on that I agree :).fun, how much memory?,and can you help me track down https://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1545 then? :)
16 at least
ok, cool.  Please, please help me track down that problem.
hmm, goswin claims that his 8gb test system works.,wacky.does the amd64 dist boot em64t boxes too?
it should, yes.,if not, it's a bug and should be fixed. :)
do they transparently run 32 bit binaries?
if you install ia32-libs, it should work for most stuff.,and static should be fine, yes.,amd64 can install and run OOo. :),it's very non-native, but works fine with ia32-libs{,-openoffice.org}
you mean the numbers or the names?
numbers
404, dude?
oh duh,let me link it in,refresh,i just have release there
that's fine,thanks, we're adding you to the download page now


koke: looking into it
ahh you're here.. ignore my mail then.. *grin*
are you on internet2?
yes
universe!.new sttsuff?,yes :),not with ntsx :)
haha
i spelled ubuntu wrong, differently, twice :)
'people.ubunlinux.org' <-- you did it again.
but i mispelled it in a hypothetical url, so it doesn't matter,although it makes my phrase "probably" less probable


I'm a bit unclear as to what the big difference between ubuntu and user-linux is
that's one for the FAQ
Should I be expectin that faq update any minute ;)
yes, i'm eating at the same time,http://www.ubuntulinux.org/support/documentation/faq/userlinux/
universe doesn't include non-free does it?
no
what's with the 4.10 release number for warty?
Year/month.,deb http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu warty main restricted universe
ok, I'm not alone with that bug then!!!
hey that happened to me also.
welcomed to the club :-D,firewire


were you able to use your iPod with ubuntu?
only if its in when i boot
did you tested the usb issue I told you?
COCKFOSTERS,yes, that makes it work again. silly thing :)
ok, I'm not alone with that bug then!!!
did you file it?
not yet, I don't know where should I file it (debian, kernel.org...)
be lazy: ubuntu for now and let people forward it on :)
and I don't have time to debug it,X-)


dude!
DUDE!,it's thehe date! :),was running warty on some old laptop i think
hello. I search a live cd iso of ubuntu. Do you know where i can find one ?
there's a test one, but it's not yet been widely released
ok. thnak you. There is bad link for it in the wiki
im trying to find it now
http://wiki.ubuntulinux.org/WartyWarthog_2fLiveCD
will have a url for you shortly
not really :) someone just asked jeff what happened while he was in the middle of a presentation,the presentation is being done in a boardroom at a pub,draw your own conclusions :)
you're up in sydney currently?
yah
so are jdub and friends coming down for the luv presentation?
fifth of october
cool shame you couldn't arrange to have the final done for then :)
having our os name start with 'ew' isn't so great ;)
used to work for NEC blame him :)
not my fault, blame thombot
so I take it you guys are set for x40 testing then?
always have been
now there are 2 people who don't have x40s?
yay telstra finally upgraded my line to ADSL,now im updating everything from sounders cd8 with synaptic
oh, they finally provisioned it,yow.warty, or hoary?
hoary
it should be fine ...
 no the fun police took away my X and broke the fglrx package beyond repair, removal or reinstall
oh.  the 'fun police' in this case would be me.
 thank you thank you thank you,    I couldnt edit /var/lib/dpkg/info/diversions because it doesnt exist
you can't have nvidia-glx and fglrx installed at the same time, i don't think,try /var/lib/dpkg/diversions, rather
 thanks mate I got xorg-driver-fglrx installed and I   did  dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xorg  and set fglrx as my driver .


hi.Is it just my system, or does the preview release ISO for PPC reliably crash DiskUtility on Mac OS X when trying to burn?
I haven't used that particular tool, but I can burn the image fine with Linux and GNOME tools
The PPC one?
yes, the powerpc one
I think it's not broken by itself, at least not totally, since I can also mount it here.
agreed
It just seems to disagree with DiskUtility
http://cdimage.ubuntu.com/releases/warty/preview/
Ah, thanks.
is their bug tracking system public?  it would be great to have a URL we could give people so they could follow the issue, since more people will run into this
No, it is not. You need to be an ADC member to access it (there's a free online membership though, if anyone is willing to go through the application forms to file the bug).
is there a bug ID number or anything like that?
If you have the time, you might want to try to build a slightly modified ISO. As I said before, I never had a problem with it before that. Or put an FAQ somewhere ;)
yeah, we never ran into this with previous CD builds, it must just be how it happened to be assembled,if you file a bug in our bugzilla, I'll use that to collect information about the problem, and to notify folks if we find a workaround or if the next CD is known to avoid the issue,http://bugzilla.ubuntulinux.org/
not really :) someone just asked jeff what happened while he was in the middle of a presentation
: jeff is doing presentation right now? so the party concludes the event? ,: hah,: drug are bad for you
not much
: I really liked your web spot btw, with photos etc :)
which one?
: there's a one with photos of you on some trip, and some debian conference :),: actually, I'd love to have this link again - I lost my bookmarks since then.
http://fooishbar.org/gallery/ ?
: exactly!
(all the photos of trees were from when I got bored and decided to see how long my camera battery could last -- I think the answer was about 500 photos)
: boy, she's an enregizer bunny :)
heh
: I see you have the same taste like mines in Logitech :-)),: I also have a desktop iTouch system, reciever handles both kbd abd mouse.,: http://www.everyvoteforjohnhowardgodkillsakitten.org/ <---- ?? ;-)
heh,yo dude


I burnt an earlier i386 sounder image in DiskUtility without trouble.What version of OSX?
Me too.,10.3.5
thanks, I think that is what I have here. I will try to replicate,I've got about 40min left on this d/l, then I'll try it here
Alright. But I guess it's definitely not working on 10.3.5 :(
you managed to burn the image with DiskUtility after all?
No, I used cdrecord.,I'll file a radar bug later, let's see what Apple thinks ;)
heh
And I'm planning to re-rip the CD once I'm done installing and test that.
I'm still waiting on the iso, unm mirror has slowed a bit :),does warty share a drive with OSX on that machine? (if so, how did that go?)
I originally had 2 installations of OS X on that drive, one partition for each. Deleted one of them during the manual partition step and created a root filesystem (ext3), a swap partition and a new world boot loader partition on the freed space. That was all.
thanks.yeah, nice, isn't it?,ping
pong?
powerpc image crashes disk utility here, too, soon as I load it.,yeah, completely tanks as soon as I load the iso,night,hope you mentioned 'ubuntu' in your bug report w/ apple :)


elmo:  ;) 
there are several variations in ubuntu-artwork; which one do you have in mind?
we just need the little icon part of the ubuntu logo,thanks :o)


arround ?
yes
was the same question


if the package is in debian/main and it's not in universe, then there was a failure in the build...  I'm not aware of anything from debian/main that was intentionally dropped from universe...,by debian buildd standards, main+restricted+universe is sitting at around 97-98%
the sources to all of debian.main is in universe, right?
hi Nafai ,nice to see you here
Yeah, just checking out what you and spiv have been up to,edd, seb128, any others who might have been involved with Gnome 2.8, congrats on the release!.Text based or GTK?
text
Holding up to the slashdoting? :)
haha
Sorry.  I can't help myself.
when you really think you want threads, eat an apple. and write a state machine.


Congratulations guys, zero critical/blocker bugs left :-),Argh, what's wrong here? I get a 403 on http://archive.ubuntu.com/cdimage,I just wanted to suck the newest iso
blink, you do?
probably
use cdimage.ubuntu.com for now, I'll go fix it
thanks a lot. Too little sleep,this was only true to execute this infamous fstab-mangling script,pmount does a better job now


perhaps the file is in the CVS and in the tarball but deleted in a clean target or something,hey thom 
thanks for the favicons :o)
hey are you guys using the gnomeized version of ooo?
haggai is around, so I guess yes
sweet
just add /vmlinuz and /initrd.img,the hdd in root might be bogus
it grows on you,ooobooontooo
i hope you guys say it like that at company meetings and stuff
I have a truly shitty mic buried away somewhere,oh yes.  there's a hand gesture too


its not graphical im guessing.decent hardware detection?,thats all i needed to hear,:-D,where does nice,whoops.what about nvidia driver for x?.they have it in apt?
apt-gettable,not for the Warty release, but our development branch will be moving to x.org very very soon,the installer installs grub in the MBR by default, unless you have other operating systems installed, in which case it prompts you,we should include an ogg vorbis sample :-)
sure
everything uses ALSA drivers, but the OSS API.why do you say you can't have that?.perhaps bug #1293?
might just be it
that phase should not take very long at all
even for 150 packages?
even for 500 packages.which packages did you install?,look in the System Monitor, View: All Processes, and look for dpkg-preconfigure
i cant recall all the package names,i grepped for it
the important bit is the children of that process
i dont see any children
strace -p 7001
Process 7001 attached - interrupt to quit.got the email?
no
it hasnt bounced back to me,ok i sent it again. im going to kill aptitude for the moment.got the email?
yes, finally arrived,ok, so it's the hardware detection for xfree86 which is hanging,please file a bug against discover1
did you ever get my email?
yes,attach the ps listing to the bug report and explain what you saw
i also noticed a hang when installing the cups updates
perhaps you need to set the network name/ESSID?
yes i think that would help
computer->system configuration->networking->properties
I also wish the network config app would let me set the channel
you should never need to set that except on an AP,2.6.8.1-9,hoary,for future reference, the list of proposed hoary feature goals is in the wiki, page HoaryHedgehog
are you guys getting any subscriptions for service yet?
howl is a Hoary project,yes
you just responded to my bug report about the crash once gnome starts and during the boot
I guess I don't understand what you are trying to tell me
i deleted my kernel log rebooted my box ran memtest , no errors, when i booted back up it froze 3 times after i logged in to gnome after each freeze i had to reboot.,i dont see anything obvious in the kernel log


does Ubuntu use the Debian repositories?.ah. So there'll be more or less the same software in both?.does Ubuntu use the same bugreporting system as Debian?,ah ,ah :-(.is there something the devs didn't like about the Debian's bugreporting system?
I'm one of the *developers* of Debian's bug tracking system :-) There was some debate about it, Canonical also employs one of Bugzilla upstream and we'll be switching to our own eventually
"our own" means specific to Ubuntu?
Malone, as above,there are some things we want to do that no existing bug tracking system really handles very well
fixed
thanks
you aren't by any chance the same AndreD from FICS?
Unfortunately not; I don't even know what FICS is:-)
(chess server),sounds like a compliment, thanks :-)


(btw, mozilla-bonobo can embed gpdf to view PDF file in the browser and that's cool too.).Hm, what's the status of Java in Ubuntu?
non distributable i'd guess
Two free Java applet plugins, kaffe-oji-plugin and gcjwebplugin, both sucks badly.
is cdimage.ubuntu.com actually alive?
Eh, not plugin themselves, but underlying free Java implementation (particularly of AWT) I think.,Yes.


ubuntu is the most shiny debian distro  hehe  ;)
did you get them to include your icon theme?
im doing a new one for ubuntu
got any SS of the new theme?,nothing too interesting,my attempts http://www.cs.uno.edu/~jsunseri/ScreenShots/pyfi.png  ,you know i only use svg
I'm not sure I understand Ubuntu's "raison-d'tre", could someone enlighten me?
http://www.ubuntulinux.org/ubuntu/ has some starting points
that page doesn't give much information... nothing seems to set it apart from userlinux, mepis and co
that's a good idea; we should outline some of the comparisons and contrasts,www.canonical.com should answer the first question
so revenue should stem from services? there's some tough competition going on there


yeah but java as a whole sucks generally
Why?
because there are so many applets that simply won't run under JRE 1.4, because they were written either with stuff that has been removed from the standard, or they are just buggy junk that java allows you to write,I need java myself for a number of reasons, and unfortunately it almost ends up being that I need at least 4 or 5 machines with different jre installs so that I can actually use all the apps I need to use in my work day,and that's irrespective of windows/linux/whatever
Too bad. :(
evenin.does this come with an installer?
yes
great news about the centrino =)
that synaptic package you were trying to install is not from Hoary,that'd be the problem,caution is definitely advisable when adding entries to sources.list; you are trusting that repository with the integrity and security of your system
Is it possible that things like java and acroread could be put in either restricted or universe?.Maybe spice?
java is a complicated issue due to its licensing
Okay.  It seems that ubuntu is a little less zealous than Debian (e.g. inclusion of binary drivers)
acroread may be a possibility; at one point it was distributed in Debian non-free,re: DVD, xine is available in universe
I'm not up-to-date on the css issues.


will you transfer to "Malone"?
eventually, yeah,those are actually fairly easy to fix, it's just that getting it right for every language and keyboard layout on the planet is a bit ... non-trivial,not quite, it's more complicated than that,the keyboard layouts are all called "mac-usb-*", and there was some conflation of hardware with keyboard layout; that's still an issue,I don't think we (er, "we" == Debian) ever actually assumed USB hardware though
but there's a choice now. several upgrades/installs for me actually didn't show a question but silently converted se to mac-usb-se or something.


fund ubuntu and gnu-arch mostly i gather,it doesn't yet :-)
lol, you serious?
about what?  they certainly intend to make money -- but since they only decloaked yesterday it 's not surprising if they're not making money yet
oh,im just courious as to how they are going to
yeah me too :-).  i wish them luck though. it has a good philosophy behind it


I'm wondering what's the reason for Ubuntu's workforce to build their own distro instead of joining in on an existing project
we're joining in on the debian project :-)
yeah, but I'm not talking about debian specifically,some debian based distros are already trying to clean up its act.so there isn't yet a (free) group which is working on debian the way you guys are?,lol, mjg59, Bruce Peren : is he that bad? :) (jus askin, I dunno)
ubuntu is a free software project too, though
Aha, install apache2 first, and then install other softwares.,Eh, no.,For apache2 you need something like apache-modconf enable php4 or whatever.,I think it's documented in /usr/share/doc/<apache2-php4-module>/README.Debian.,Well, it's pretty easy actually.
ok, ill try apache2 then :) ,around ? 
Yep.
what was the place you said i should have a look around to find the apache2 configure stuff for mod_php ? ,and how exactly should i go about installing mod_php4 with apache2 ? 
Eh...,/query me


(btw, mozilla-bonobo can embed gpdf to view PDF file in the browser and that's cool too.).Hm, what's the status of Java in Ubuntu?,Two free Java applet plugins, kaffe-oji-plugin and gcjwebplugin, both sucks badly.,Eh, not plugin themselves, but underlying free Java implementation (particularly of AWT) I think.
see the FAQ on the wiki
I am just complaining. Sorry.
sounded like a perfectly valid question to me ;)
gcjwebplugin and its dependency is all GPL-licensed free software.,It *can* view some Java applets on the net, but it can crash badly. :(
unfortunately, there are bugs in the world that are hard to work around in software. :)
Heh.,jay303F says that his Ubuntu install hanged on loading ide-cd (while Debian installer worked.).Is GNOME 10 real?


hi,so, whats the story w/ ubuntu? :).does it use the debian repositories or its own?
our own
how does it work?
which part of it?,we have our own infrastructure for building and distributing Ubuntu,you get packages using apt and its frontends, generally
and the packages dont come from debian?
much of the source code has come from Debian,hmm, I'm not sure that we do
well i suppose linux always looks the same
actually it is quite distinctive at the moment :-)
eh? what desktop?
GNOME 2.8
dcc me over a screenshot :)
Canonical Ltd. is committed to the development, distribution and promotion of open source software products, and to providing tools and support to the open source community.
but hwo does it make money?.support contracts?
where are who?
screenies :)
I put one up
where?.laptop?
those shots are from my laptop, yes
Congrats on the prerelease. I just joined the i386 torrent.,debian doesn't default to having a webserver installed, you'd just have to make sure apache2 is the only web server installed
for example if i go aptitude install cacti ,it attempts to install apache1 not 2, how do i make it do 2 ,thanks :) ,aptitude install cacti apache2 seems to want to install apache,what happens with mod_php if i install apache2 ,will it modify the configuration and etc ? 
I think so, though it may just ask you.


more or less, yes.
.za mirrors ? 
does ubuntu use .deb's ?
yes!
ok thanks


and others are involved - it has to rock.There are two main mirroring organization here at Purdue (csociety.org and cerias).  ftp.cerias.purdue.edu is an official debian mirror.  Would that be the preferred choice if we have to choose only 1?
hrm, probably a choice for the mirror maintainer
hmmm lots of people here already,im curious as to the type of installer ubuntu uses
it's a slicked-up debian-installer
how slicked up?
simplified a fair bit, lots of performance improvments, etc. :-),no, the graphical installer will be coming in our second release,AndyFitz's theme is in progress (check out the Human icon theme after you install),none! :)
im gonna miss my home icon :(  is this a gnome thing or is it a ubuntu thing?
ubuntu,you can turn the desktop icons back on in gconf-editor (under /apps/nautilus) if you want to,you have full access in the computer menu,in normal operation, you can't get to your desktop behind your current work ;)
the computer menu will include things liek remote fiele systems like an ftp or ssh volume?
in the future, yeah,but see 'disks' and 'network' in the ocmputer menu,it's based on indubstrial, yes,the meaning of ubuntu is just beautiful, it's great :)
were you telling me to do that search?
there will be no updates apart from security, dataloss and high impact fixes after the final release date.,preview is precisely what it says it is. :-),if you explain the problem usefully, sure.,we're doing ok :),we're going for earthy, human colours.
what about the gorilla theme? is earthy.why do you even have that option there if its not good?
because i haven't removed it yet
its annoying when i have to do like 5 things as root to sudo everytime
one package was how it was done in debian
how can i tell which my laptop supports?.you around?.do you think you guys could get some decent ubuntu gear at cafepress?.do you guys know how many ubuntu installs using the popularity contest thing that was installed?
nup,we're going to have t-shirts and so on, not cafepress stuff though.,remember we froze in around june...
i noticed
wait until hoary.
i like ubuntu so much i think it will be worth the wait.why can the ndiswrapper be in a repository?
apt does not build, test, stabilise and support software. humans do that.
will jhbuild work for someone on FreeBSD?.you around?


hmm, evolution is doing crazy things with its calendar for me,events don't appear on the calendar when I add them, but do appear in the gnome clock thing,then I unload my calendar (unclick the tick box), and re-enable it again.. and the events magically re-appear
File a bug in Ubuntu's bugzilla maybe?
does Ubuntu have kde-3.3?
sounds like a troll
what? why?
i'd love to see kde pkgs :),i mean tseng sounds like a troll
What about ndiswrapper? :),please, i was just kidding.,and debian usually provies "-gtk" or "-qt" packages...
-gtk and -qt is just a waste of package name space, like having the version number in the package name.
it would work if debian/rules supported it


Does ubuntu handle source packages in a different way to Debian at all?
how d'you mean?
Just wondering whether it can keep the Gentoo types happy too.
right now we're working pretty much the same way as Debian,there are other bits of Canonical working on alternatives, though,more news when it happens :),the main reason for that is that Debian developers need them,the complexities of that are unbelievable :)
Not really.
we do have a Gentoo guy on staff, one of the things he's been looking at is related
So, is Ubuntu continually based on Debian or is it based on some snapshot taken at some point in the past?
snapshot,but the next release will be a newer snapshot, and so on.
Sounds like a reasonable idea.  I was at a Gentoo meeting recently (hosting it, but I'm nothing to do with Gentoo) and remarked that one of Debian's faults is the slow stable process..Does that command line you gave actually work?,You could remove them after building.


Why is floppy net install a big deal?.heya jdub, do you know what the big differences are between userlinux and ubuntu?
in terms of direction or what we include?,sid!,nice, pretty, useful startup information,without ugly kernel patches and so on
another thing I have learned as an OS X admin is that anyone who saves anything to the desktop without prompting should be shot,at any given time I have like 30 random .pdfs on my Desktop (sure they could be in ~/tmp or whatever) but they are just pointless clutter,:)
you shouldn't need to download anything from the 'net other than updates
I like the Computer menu but it seems like it needs an Applet too
hrm?
the top-menu in Gnome manages to be a waste of space for average users
hrm, not sure that's true
really?
wrt top menu being a waste of space
ohh
no, don't encourage that.
hehe ;),yeah.how does Ubuntu freeze?
we stop syncing with sid
is that different from http://www.ubuntulinux.org/ubuntu/releasecycle/document_view.also, does ubuntu have any way to warn users to apply updates?
nup, will do for hoary
I must be looking at the wrong thing as I am still confused about the release timeline
what's unclear?
like is freeze done 6 months out?
no, see the UpstreamVersionFreeze
yeah, that's what I'm after
'gconf' not 'registry',an LDAP backend has been written, but there are authentication issues
kerberos is both incredibly cool and very poorly documented.how can you drag /bin to the trash if you are not root?
not entirely funny.
btw, just so you don't fall into the same pothoe as OS X, OS X crashes if you drag System to the Trash ;)
brilliant...,no 'features', but it has been synced with sid,not entirely true these days.
fill me in,okay, tell me about it when you get off the phone.I've got a question. Is it possible that a contrib package could be placed in hoary's universe if licence and rational are permitting?
yes
because sdl installs oss support by default and having it default to esd or all would be more appropriate for ubuntu
gnome default change,just go into the Windows dialogue and change the behaviour
it's not that, I was afraid I had a dot-file hanging around that might have changed it.has there been much feedback on the Computer menu?
yeah, mostly positive,there's a discussion going on upstream about modifying the menus, which is moving towards where we'd like to go,not transparently
why not?
because no one's proposed doing it, and thus far we just have notifications of updates.,security updates are in a different component
really?
yes,update manager lists all udpates available
so does ubuntu do non-security based updates to stable repositories?
they were put in warty-security (-updates wasn't listed in the default sources.list -> bug)
how do you trigger X configuration to start again so it will overwrite your xorg conf and all that
see the comment at the top of xorg.conf about md5sum stuff
I nuked it i'm afraid.can you paste that in?
explain what you mean by b0rked
is there a way to file a grumpy blocker?
hoary+1 do you mean?
yeah, is it not grumpy groundhog still?,but yes, hoary + 1 if grumpy isn't official,who's the wiki man, I renamed GrumpyGroundhog to UserTemplates, because that's what it is, and it also went back and renamed the link on the front page


does it use xorg ?
currently it uses XFree86 4.3 with a mountain of patches, but the development branch will be brought up-to-date with X.Org's X11R6.8.1.do you mean lbxproxy?
yes, it depends on that
it makes no difference if you aren't using it
seemed faster to me


ctrl +/- for font zoom broken in epiphany for anyone else?
usplash is completely separate and makes people drool---sadly it's not in Warty so you'll have to hang on for another six months
yeah I just can't find any info on it anywhere.
if you search around the web for "Mad Phat Splash", you'll find a couple of people who've blogged about it,yes and no.  Some of the recent patches allow reattaching in the same way as VNC
like screen for X, that rules.


even better would be uber fast init so you don't have to sit and look at a bootsplash for long :p
you ain't seen nothing yet ;-)
considering doing an init with dependencies
sudo updates the your time stamp on  /var/run/sudo/username  each time you use it,you can remove the timestamp with  sudo -k
I knew it was somethin like that
sudo {command you would have typed as root}
I just installed Ubuntu on my iBook. It's looks really cool ... but I have the following on my list that does not work: DNS (I get my IP successfully via DHCP), getting an error message on login because of wrong permissions on /dev/pmu and I cannot play sound because "/dev/dsp already in use by another application". Other than that, it's fantastic so far :)
check /etc/resolv.conf real quick
empty,I guessed so.,Rebooting back into Ubuntu right now, I'll investigate further ... I just wanted to see if my OS X install has survived :)
heh,look for lines with "nameserver" in /etc/dhclient-script
I do.
actually, mine's working, if you put yours up somewhere, I can do a diff real quick (I doubt the script is different between platforms)
what's the md5sum on your script?
bbl... put mine up instead of diffing it.... http://schweeb.org/~chris/dhclient-script
Now that's a very different script ;)


just use the keyborad shortcut for screenshots
is your NIC a PCI card?
no its onboard on the asus P800 delux
can you run lspci and see if it shows up?
it shows up as 3c940 10/100/1000Base-T,http://www.linuxquestions.org/questions/history/69418,another thread about the p800/3940 http://www.ussg.iu.edu/hypermail/linux/kernel/0306.2/1556.html
can you file a bug in bugzilla?
not that the bugzilla site would come up if i search for bugzilla or bug on the website
http://bugzilla.ubuntulinux.org/
https://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1297
thanks.this is an i386 system?
What about ndiswrapper? :),please, i was just kidding.,and debian usually provies "-gtk" or "-qt" packages...,i'm just a lazy fart when doing it.,the non-gui part is working though.
ok.any project page or something?
i've got about two lines written about it. it's just a very short shell script.,you can try http://vemod.net/slask/software/quickpackage2,and don't laugh :)
i promiss not to
or: feel free to laugh, but remeber that i'm fully aware of it.
i do agree,perl/GTK2 or ruby/GTK2 are very good gui scripting languages, maybe you should try em
I hope the Trash applet will work for all sorts of delete operations in the future, not just for Nautilus delets. That would be cool.
yeah, that's the intention,not added, bugfix uploads ;),we have a bugfix coming for that soon
Will it work to drag it to the Trash applet then?
no, gnome doesn't do unmount-by-trashing
I needed to add a .fdi thing for my IXUS 400 in /usr/share/hal/fdi/20freedesktop/ . Will that have to be done for all cameras an devices that should work with hotplugging?
no, only ones that are not already supported,please add that as an attachment in a bug
Yeah, I have added it in bugzilla. But there are really few .fdi files in that directory, like 4 of them. Are others built-in in some way?
mmm, think so,in configuration editor,go to /apps/nautilus/desktop,turn on the special icons you wnat
I hae for a few days now. I like drag-dropping stuff to those icons.
we're going to modify it after warty is out
Based on that theme? I think they've done most of the job already, so it probably would be wise to use it.


the MTA question is one.
Right, and I'm glad they've decided on just using local delivery by default instead of asking for that.
also the sudo thing,why did no one think of a trash applet before. I can't go back now,that's different icons on the existing wifi applet.
I hope the Trash applet will work for all sorts of delete operations in the future, not just for Nautilus delets. That would be cool.
I alias my rm to just mv to ~.Trash
I didn't mean like that. I meant stuff like removing bookmarks by dragging them to the Trash applets. Stuff like that.
oh oh,any hopes of getting the official firefox logo? </nitpick>
Third-party distributors can't use it, so I guess not.,Oh my, a "Computer" menu. I wonder what that reveals.
lots of stuff that was on the desktop before.
Aha
i'll screenie it
thanks
http://www.arslinux.com/~jorge/screenshots/ubuntu_computer_menu.png
The "Desktop" entry is the "Show desktop" button?
it opens an empty window to ~/Desktop


Is someone gonna provide some space for community driven KDE support in Ubuntu?
yes; I'm not sure we can give you a timeline yet, but that's very much the plan
Great. I'm right that KDE is currently excluded, even in the "unsupported" repository?,Am I*
the source is in universe, but I believe there was some build problem, and generally up to now we've been ignoring build problems in universe,it's an issue for people, though, so somebody is looking at it ...
Sounds fair enough :)
it's already tuned for p4 ...
Oh. I haven't seen that information anywhere..If the community does a good work, will Ubuntu provide KDE as an alternative DE in the installation phase?
I'm not sure what'll happen w.r.t. installation for things like Kubuntu,I think the plan is more to have the KDE-interested guys ship a separate CD
Does something named Kubuntu exist or are you just making fun of me? :),Sounds better, yes.
not yet, we named it a while back anyway ;)
Is Kubuntu something Canonical staff will do? :)
unlikely; we'll be creating infrastructure for that sort of thing in general, but KDE support is expected to be community-provided
Thanks, that's all I wanted to know.,Ubuntu's "snapshots" of Debian is pretty much what the Debian Desktop Distribution is doing/going to do.
sort of the same angle but a different approach
Hows is the approach different? Except the focus on some selected packages.
please report that to the qemu developers
ur at con* also?
howdy :-).con*?.con*?
oh sorry. company name,i went off to look for the spelling of the one word i couldn't spell :P
Er. No? :) Why would I be that? :) I'm just a clueless lamer.,Canonical BTW.
maybe finally i'll actually remember that :P
it would take about 20 min for you too code something like that :)
5 :P
then do it,i'm actually doing something like that
yer i know,thats incidently y i asked u about con* thing :).why not implement the gui in some scripting lang?
i'm on my way :),i just have to learn it first. hehe.,i've been looking at kommander and kjsembed.,i've got a .ui file ready actually,feel free to help me :) this front hasn't moved in two months or something.,Loduriel: anyway, the simplicity is pretty obvious.
i'd suggest qtruby of course :)
Ruby feels like an uncommon dependency..What have you fixed?
is there some reasoning behind it being completely empty though? 
ever notice how when you want to get to something on the desktop, there are always windows in the way? ;-)
installing warty, noticed that its downloading and installing everything (X11 and all)..did I miss something or is this by design.  I just wanted a 'base install'
if you just want to do a base/custom install (not the whole desktop), type 'custom' in at the install boot prompt
does Ubuntu have kde-3.3?
hah no way
I just installed Ubuntu on my iBook. It's looks really cool ... but I have the following on my list that does not work: DNS (I get my IP successfully via DHCP), getting an error message on login because of wrong permissions on /dev/pmu and I cannot play sound because "/dev/dsp already in use by another application". Other than that, it's fantastic so far :)
does your dhcp server normally set the dns correctly on other OS's?
Really, having "Desktop" on the menu seams weird. I don't think people should have to think about the "Desktop" as a folder.
it lets you move stuff to the desktop even if you have apps that obscure it
nor me,although ... ubuntu/ppc on a 15" powerbook might be nice.
or in proper engrish, "nor I" :P,they were discussing it a bit last night,lol
you look into this pmount thing yet?
no.what is it you're wanting to know?
I haven't tried plugging in my ipod or usb key yet.
oh no, who let b0rk b0rk in here :p,filing a orca ansuload of bugreports right now
you ever get suspend working in ubuntu?
no, haven't got suspend yet,xprint was always sort of an addon
it's a dell laptop yes
it's the parport_pc problem
hey that guy ever fix his laptop sound issue?
yea,dude, was looking at VAIOs at MicroCenter... those things may suck at linux support, but the LCD was fucking beautiful,yea, you can't even frigging rip audio CDs w/o an optical drive... think about that... and no burner.what now?,chances - unlikely,they're like sarge dude... version freeze... bugfixes only
upgrade and test type-ahead-find would you?.your find-as-you-type is totally broken right?
whiprush: 
that's weird, it shouldn't change my option like that.
....why did you mark NOTABUG?,it's a bug in ubuntu's package, doesn't matter if it works in the tarball
I looked it up on mozilla's bugzilla,rol, in all irony, I made a new profile inbetween.,new profile, no history
link? or is it in the subscribers only still
I got ifolder running in ubuntu
nice - http://www.ubuntulinux.org/community/teams/laptop,ask G how many Maxtors he's been through
hehe,nice :>,congratz on ur new relationship then :P,hehe,they are kinda cute admittedly,umm.what does PermitRootLogin default to in ubuntu?.is there a "securing debian" guide somewhere by any changes?,s/ges/ces/,thx thom :)
"yes" (I'm the openssh maintainer in Debian too ...),since Ubuntu doesn't set the root password by default, it's even less important than it is in Debian
you have sudo etc setup?
yes,synaptic, runs inside gksudo
i'm *very* happy to hear that you guys have a clue :P
hey, we have one of the Debian security team working for us, he'd jump up and down on our skulls if we were being security-clueless ...
:>,tho i don't like the idea of u getting ur skull squashed :)
nor I
good :)
Ubuntu itself will stay Debian-style, I imagine
no :),good :)
debianism, "intent to package"
i hate gentoo's compile times now that i no longer have a 3 machine cluster :),ah. thx,yeah. its difficult. but its freakishly useful
specific version: apt-get install <package>=<version>, provided that you have an entry in sources.list providing that
whats that entry? thats the problem i had :|
well, in Debian's case you go to snapshot.debian.net; we've nothing like that for Ubuntu yet, we'd much rather fix the problems that cause you to be using the old version in the first place
my last example. broken bison came out. kde's dcop was fucked totally by it. needed to downgrade before i could commit
fix bison :)
no thanks :) more important things to do :),i fixed kde instead in the end,by removing the dep on bison :P
right, but that's *our* approach - fundamentally it's the right thing to do if your goal's to release a stable distribution, and within stable releases by definition such things shouldn't happen ...
I've got a Netgear MA311(a wireless pci adapter) working with the orinoco module, will it be recognised by the installer? or will i need to set it up after?
that's fairly vanilla, should be recognized,if it doesn't, send us the PCI id
 i didnt know the linux kernel had support for wireless,sweet
the linux kernel has had support for wireless for a long time
ITP ubuntu-personal-buildd
itp?
you can burn CDs via nautilus, if you didn't kow
iso's? dvd's? etc?,think i'll prob stick to command line :) just as easy as finding an altnerative to k3b i think :)
you can burn .iso files via the context menu, AFAIK,copying CDs, mastering DVDs and anything more complicated sucks in GNOME ATM :-/,build-essential is only build-essential. Packages also have other Build-Dependencies,apt-get build-dep <package>,Build-Depends are around since the 90s


there isnt much reason to build you own when the packages work well
"optimization!"
lies


hey man :)
what,whats.what's up man?
not much. getting ready to call into my team meeting. ugh.
boring stuff :-)
seriously
well you can abuse your bw to download ubuntu during the meeting,at least it won
haha. will do.
i know :-)
hey man
pretty happy.. i thing i manage to fix the Xv extensions on the nv driver
sweet :),I'm just reading emails and seeing if my batch jobs finished running over the weekend. monday sucks.
i think someone has to change the term of Maintaining Xfree86 into "I am doing a few hours of BDSM with Xfree86",ehehe
hahahaha,I get to play "rewrite someone's broken project from scatch" this week; I feel your pain,hold on, my favorite table at the coffee shop just freed up. time to grab it.
still working from the coffee shop?
yeah. my life is hell ;)
AOhell? ;)
shhhhhh. hehe.,fix a dark roast w/ 3 shots of espresso in it.,good stuff :),hey man
try to boot linux s
fix my hotplug issue
from there disable hotplug,and let it boot.does it hard freeze the box?
it seems to, but I was just playing with it during my lunch break, haven't really tried to debug the problem yet
sometimes hotplug can really take hell of a lot of time to boot,s#boot#finish
maybe I'll turn it on again and let it sit for half an hour or so and just see if it untangles itself,I believe the numlock key was turning the light on and off now that I think about it,which means it was probably not hard locked
in that case let it run for a bit,hotplug is a race condition trap,worst case linux s and you are up to kill hotplug
I'm striping the drives in this thing anyway...,so it's not like I'm going to be able to just yank a drive out while it's running
i guess you mean mirroring :-),otherwise if you unplug a drive you can say bye bye,ttyl,give a hug to wife & kids :-)
later man and will do,although I don't know if I'll give my wife a hug for you... you lecherous bastard ;)


Well, I'm about to install Warty on a laptop. Have there been any brown-paper-bag bugs pertaining to laptop explosion found since yesterday?
what laptop?
A Fujitsu-Siemens Amilo D 1840. Fairly generic, gets on well with Debian.
should be fine -- we did a lot of laptop testing
I'll inform you if bad things happen.


sudo bash ... ahhhh >(,:)
mmmm.  Well that defeats all the security and accountability of using sudo
I know, I know. old habbit...
if you really feel the need, you could do   sudo passwd   and set a root password.
its too bad the name "ubuntu" isnt a good name,to me anyway,the meaning of the name is fine
I also like it
LMFAO


Anyone successfully used ipw2200? My computer stopped responding when loading the driver
yes, it's working well for me,the driver is relatively new, though
strange
yes, it's 0.7,pretty :-)
yea, I use fluxbox, and I don't even notice not having desktop icons,nothing,there is no root,I think the passwd file still has a user,it's like a daemon user, you'll never need to actually be that user
the root account is disabled, but still exists (it has to)
right, for file ownership and such
not much
so pretty much just a change in reference to gksudo from gksu
and extra work elsewhere to make it all work properly, yeah,hold on a sec :)
okay okay, heh
yeah
thought I read somewhere in the wiki that msttcorefonts was being considered for main, regardless of the legal aspect... (no browser yet to confirm)
ubuntu,faq entry in a minute
I recommend you guys get rid of that default disclaimer motd ;) one of the biggest thing that annoys me in debian... first thing I do when I login to a new sys is rm it
(and also, it was too mcuh work to replace in the installer ;),for this release
yea, since the discover framework was already there.was the livecd removed?
delayed a little,you can download older versions here: http://people.no-name-yet.com/~mdz/ubuntu-live/,please note that it's an older version of the packages and desktop, not up to date with the preview release.
just the forum post we just did on ars.btw, is there interest in forums for ubuntu?
yeah, we'd like forums,but ideally, they'd work with our mailing lists too,so if you know some software that does nntp backend forums...
I have a question about that... I know you are providing bugfixes for main and such after release... but is there going to be a complete freeze on versions, even on major apps? i.e. if mozilla-firefox goes 1.0, is there a possibility of its inclusion into warty?
mozilla-firefox will only be included in warty before Final because we'd decided to ahead of time (it's part of our desktop goal),there will not be any version upgrades after final,and generally speaking, there are no version upgrades for everything !gnome after upstreamversionfreeze,yeah, pitti wrote
right, but I'm talking about for say, vendors who want to have a downloadable driver from their site... a premade binary (not necessarily closed source)
it is a hack for that problem. it shouldn't be solved that way.
well, it's a bit of a problem in the first place that modules are kernel dependent, IMO
it's not :-)
howso?  I mean, if the driver hasn't changed, why should you have to recompile it every time you recompile the rest of the kernel?
users don't. we do. :-),we have that to some extent.,but dude, it's unlikely that you'd be upgrading a kernel between releases
why bother being modular then? do you recompile all of your libraries every time you compile a piece of software"
modular is good for other reasons (memory, reliability, cross-incompatilibty), etc.,modular kernels are not there because of the need to load external modules
okay, how about the situation where a new piece of hardware comes out, and there is a OSS driver out immediately, but the distro doesn't have it included in their list... maybe it's some inane hardware the distro would never even realize is missing... why should the user have to file a bugreport to the distro to get it added?
then it's not supported in the current release.,so users request it, and it's added to the next release.,the release cycle is sane, such that users can expect tested drivers in a reasonable period of time..you disagree that it's possible?,that's entirely possible.,ok, you're living in windows-assumption-land now :),one, because you're assuming manufacturers should provide it; second, you're assuming it'll require a kernel module. :-)
are you talking about user space drivers?
yes,most drivers will move to user space,don't think it's DMA, it's the entire system, not I/O
afaik you're right
(we're a day away from Preview release.)
yea, but still ;),is there a cursor theme included too, or are you reverting to the default X black cursors


from /.: The closest distro to Ubuntu is probably Bruce Perens's UserLinux project. But UserLinux is focused squarely upon business, whilst Ubuntu seems to be more focused on individual users.,i think that's REALLY funny :),very true :)
did you read the bit `` This might appear credible to me if I weren't more familiar with linux. Either it's a joke, or it's astroturfing. [..] ''
yeah, i think that's in reference to another now scored down comment though,i remember reading it


Xandros, for instance use VGA hacks and have the boot-loader directly program the VGA card;  then have their SplashFX patch continue with the same direct VGA hacks,usplash gets a framebuffer loaded real quick(tm), in initrd, and then everything is cross platform---it's just a framebuffer
how quick is that real quick?
can you hang around until April?  ;-).did you see my /query ?
yah, got it.you don't have to mount it?
no.  This is Ubuntu.  Welcome to the 21st Century
where do they mount to?
just type   pmount sda.it'll automagically mount it on  /media  ...unless something is broken?


Hi guys. Can anyone help a new Ubuntu user with a small issue?.Cool! When I installed Ubuntu, I was never asked to provide a root password. How do I change it?
the default account has sudo access, with the root password disabled,sudo passwd, if you specifically want a root password
Am I missing something here. It doesn't work with sudo passwd. I'm logged in as the user I created during installation.
what did it do/not do?,no, it's asking for *your* password :)
g-v-m doesn't seam to work out of the box for me. It's set to launch "gthumg --import-photos", but it doesn't seam to launch that on plugin of camera. HAL problem? "gthumb --import-photos" works on the command line.
What does device manager identify your camera as?
info.product is "IXUS 400 Camera", which seams right.
That's a plain-text string that's read from the camera,Sounds like it's a hal issue, then
Okay. Oddly enough, on that tab I have first "Device: IXUS 400 Camera" and them further down "Device Unknown" (notice no colon on second label).


s/not/now/???,it's in the faq.
Hmm, where? In the FAQ there is one mentioning of 'restricted' and 'universe', but that's the Sarge->Ubunte question.
hrmpf.
Ok, cool.
critical fixes between preview and release,urgency on the upload is meaningless


that's xresprobe, in the archive
xresprobe, i'll take a look at that, thanks
disabling root was certainly a controversial decision
its a good decision though, imho. 
not one I've ever heard of.default partitioning, or manual?
doing a manual partition
if you can extract /var/log/partman for the bug report, that might be useful
ok. dhcp also didn't work on the imacDVse. so i'll bugreport it. just registered for a bugzilal account.ok. in the console, there's no scp or anything? how do i push this to another machine conveniently?
you should have nc,you might be able to extract scp from stuff in /cdrom/pool/main/o/openssh/, but it's not exactly a non-expert path ...
yeah, my debian-fu is obviously clearly lacking. i'm very used to anaconda
by the time we get to hoary I should be able to give you one-liner instructions to get scp on the second console


yak here then
dude, you should totally be looking at ubuntu now :)
just curious to know how the prodding of X autodetection happens on PPC. is it /proc/device-tree bits?,yeah, i definitely should install it. but i'm proabbly after sources for the video autodetection tools :)
fabio and daniels can give you better answers
thanks. 
i'll convert you when i come down :)
yes, that you prolly will :P but i have to err... fix this 
we refer to it as 'totally rad'
so, where's planet canonical? ;-)
planet ubuntu is on the wya
ok. just checking.is macromedia stuff making it into ubuntu?
not at this stage, no
ok. btw, go ahead and propose acceptance of your "aware" on linux-aus
hrm?
read linux-aus. you're proposed for inclusion as an important aussie hacker
oh,it's meant to remove pcmcia-cs if it's not required
plus a lot of black magic :-)
and it detects things sanely? our ddcprobe doesn't do OFvb stuff correctly
"our" ?
and lshw for instance, or lspci detects hardware with totally wrong vram. trying to poke #address-cells to see if thats right or not, but seemingly no,fedora ppc (sorry)
Ovfb is disable by default,we disable OFvb and VESA,but we probe the others.. it's not always sane.. it does its best...,but usually in the worst case it will ask the user what to do
ah. ok. so ddcprobe and X -probeonly actually tend to make sane decisions. ddcprobe mostly gives me crack answers on the ppc hardware i have here though,will ping you when i get to reading the sources for the debian/ubuntu stuff. thanks!
well it's a lot of shell scripting,it has been working fine in all our tests.. too bad that the xresprobe is broken in the preview cd,but you can get it from the archive directly
hacks then. heh. but i believe jdub when he says its all very sweet.
hehhe well we did our best,with the hardware we had.. clearly unknown hardware might give different results,liveCd doesn't use the same probe technique
you guys definitely have more hardware than we have... we work against the crowd to get ppc working,ah, okay. so i'm gonna install it soon then,yeah, our ddcprobe is on crack. atirage128 with 512mb of ram on an iMac (for example). my laptops give weird ones too.
quick question... have you done the warty display at Debsig yet?
hrm?.the presentation?
yup
it was last night, for the release party :)
Dammit!
i posted an url to the slides to -users,but but but -> slug this month :)
Jordan. Friend of dopey.,for sure. I've been looking for a new project to sink my teeth into.. so if you are taking help, I'll take a look around and see what I can give back :)
rock!
you got a upgrader from sarge? or do I have to blow this box away? (Thinkpad T30
easier to blow away atm
when's slug?
last friday of the month, think that's the 25th
nice. is it still at JSB? (Was it ever?... I've fairly much only ever made it to debsig....)
nah, slug is at UTS
and where is the beer?
#slug on thsi netwrok btw,we have indian afterward, usually, with beer ;)
missed the log... do we have an aussie mirror yet?


During install, did you receive a prompt to set up the root password?
http://www.ubuntulinux.org/support/documentation/faq/helpcenterfaq.2004-09-15.5722653677/faq_view
During install, did you receive a prompt to set up the root password?
that's notabug
:),aaah? really? nice.,ahar.,bugger. 
warty froze end of june, so sarge is (in some cases) newer
ah....makes sense.,heh.
handwaving is all I can do on step 2.
I know. but it's still a bit funny.,if my strict catholic upbringing serves me correctly.....


I need to grab a copy of ubuntu to keep current, is there a net install only iso floating around?
you can download a netboot tarball
like a base.tar.gz?
like a kernel, initrd and config stuff for a PXE boot and network install,there is only one ISO available, the full-sized one
is it everything you need to chroot, install a boot-loader, and be done?
it gives you the complete installer, same as on the CD,actually there is a mini-ISO in there, now that I look. surprise :-),please let me know if it works; it's unofficial at the moment,a few common non-default packages, and a few packages which are sometimes needed in order to get connected to a network
hrmm
https://www.ubuntulinux.org/wiki/WartyWarthogShipSeed
what do you think about removing all the commented out entries from /etc/apt/sources.list so they wont' be picked up by Synaptic?
to what end?,I think that's a problem with synaptic's repository UI, which should be fixed there rather than removing the entries
perhaps
right,/etc/X11/xorg.conf is what you're looking for
thanks
you should not need to move anything,yes, assuming you actually have xserver-xorg installed
congratulations! xorg has allowed me to make my gui horribly slow ;),next task: find out if my video card can be hardware accelerated in Xorg ;),any clues on what package I should file a bug on for having menus dissapear on me in hoary/,also right click text, etc. Also, probably related, my screen is now stuck at 800x600 at 53hz by max
there is already a bug open about that problem
how many of those gripes go to Ubuntu bugzilla and how many to gnome?
what gripes?
did you take a looksy?


hrm.  wonder what it says for debian's release cycle when a new company can start up and issue a release faster than we can. :P
benefit of people working on ubuntu full time,and having to follow the release plan ;-)
During install, did you receive a prompt to set up the root password?
No.
thanks. Ok, so where do we setup/change the root password,Thanks


cdrecord dev=/dev/whateveryourburneris filetoburn.iso,if you can copy a file, you can burn ;)
man, the cdrecord guy HATES when you do it that way
that's a good thing.  it's also a bad thing, too, tho,fedora has a smaller package list, but it's missing everything i need. :P,fedora is missing kaffe, and a bunch more
that's what universe is for ... it's not supported, but it's their
yeah.  see, i've been *very* actively supporting fedora lately for desktop user friends.
would it help to know we have roughly the same amount of money in the bank as RedHat?
uh, i don't believe that.  but it's nice to hear
Canonical and Ubuntu are separate as well, though Canonical employ staff to work full-time on Ubuntu there's nothing requiring Ubuntu is only worked on by Canonical employees,most of that is shared footprint, though evo can grow somewhat once you read in all your mail folders :-(
yeah, i know.
try logging out, switching a console (Alt+F1), log in as you, do 'rm -rf .gnome2 .gconf', logout, Alt+F7 to get back to the login screen, then login again
tried it,no workie
if you strace gnome-session, what's it doing?
right.  virgin ubuntu,okay, just one second,it seems to be worse without it, but i'll do without,no, it takes about 10 minutes to *boot*,hang on, i'll give you the play by play,okay, i'm at gdm login screen.....   no,nevermind, acpi=force must *not* be needed,my only change to this machine is "SCursor" in XF86Config...  and that was *after* i startd having these probelms,it's stuck in poll(),now it seems to be hanging on read(),i started gnome-session over so i could grab a more complete trace.
what's the gnome-session line actually say?
thoughts?
do the strace, and see how it gets the fd it blocks on while reading/polling
wait.  i think it may be fixed,i created a new user, foobar,logged in with myself (srbaker), same thing.  so i killed X via keyboard, and then logged in with user foobar, and it worked fine,so i just removed all of the dotfiles in my home dir, and rebooting, so i can try it,that was after areboot with noapic nolapic, btw
rm /etc/rcS.d/S40hotplug
this is *fucked up*,gnome works fine for user foobar, but not for use srbaker
anything in Desktop ?
removed that too,sorry.  it's working for user foobar, just slowly.,not working for user srbaker at all


what branch of debian does ubuntu yes and is ubuntu totall compat with it ?,yes/use
ubuntu is based on Debian unstable/sid,upgrades from Debian woody are supported
ok...my question was really related to will apt-get work completely or does ubunto do anything 'unique' like mix branches causing possible problems...thx..
our release is based on a snapshot of debian unstable that we've continued to work on with bug fixes and improvements,it is closer to Debian than anaconda, but greatly streamlined
sweet
are you the same person who posted to the list with such a problem?
not sure iyts,NOT SURE been a loooooooooooong day -),but I dont think so no..this is a fresh install just this am,so very doubtful it was me,b right b...please wait,b
is it working better for you now?
nope,as Isaid earlier..i'm getting gzip eror during apt-get update,using the altenate mirror given by Mith*
oh,try using archive.ubuntu.com, then
yeahi'm going to have to revert there it would seem
I saw you were saying earlier that you were missing many packages; did you do a custom install or something?,all of that is installed by default unless you choose a custom install
nope..I chose no custom anything except manual partition
the default is to provide a working gnome desktop
well its borked then ;(
how big is the partition on which you installed?
65GB
email a copy of /var/log/base-config.log to the ubuntu-users mailing list
unless I missed something and it tried to install to  a smaller one dunno..shrug
it sounds like something went wrong; better to find out what that was than to try to patch it up by hand
sorr but im not familiar much with non-X emailing..how do I do this?
there will be more information about that soon
okie thanks
^^^,you probably have some things listed twice in /etc/apt/sources.list,make sure you only have 'main' and 'restricted' once each
sorry didn't catch your post..i'm checking now
https://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1469
yes I have dups but sources.list is as it came installed...checking bugzilla now thx
it was fixed for new installs some time ago, but existing sources.lists are not updated
okay the 'ftp' change made it work but not removing the original entries 
http://www.ubuntu.com/community/participate#code
Evo with junk mail filtering requires more, i think.
the junk filtering is just spamassassin
yes, forking off a new sa thread for each message. ran it on a machine w/128mb of ram and kept on getting POP timeouts. up'ed the machine to 640mb of ram, and its a breeze :)
then use spamd
it has pizazz,anyway its 'meaning' is what matters so for me they could have called it 'bootoo' and i'd like it LOL,ooh-boon-too is what I thought as well LOL,I like that it comes with gnome ;-0,so dain many only ship kde and it really urks me,I wont know for about another hour or so assuming that how long it takes to download/install ;-0
you pulling from a torrent?
yup,I just now started it..;0
it uses a simplified and enhanced debian-installer
sweet
our second release will have a graphical installer
nice on both counts ;-),i always thought text and gui should be offered
KDE and GNOME are both Free Software, let's not get into this :-)
all i'm saying is I 'prefer' gnome because to do commercial doesn't require paying..its just that simple to me..no biggie!
yes, for this release
ic..what are you going for in next
got some funky plans for an easy install/uninstall proggie and update notifier,see the HoaryHedgehog page on the wiki
ok will do,very nice..I like innovation ;-00,please consider ( unless you already are) a panel applet notifier for updating
yes, will definitely have that.it's not in universe?
oh crud I forgot about universe sorry..i'll add it to my sources.list
but remember that universe stuff is unsupported ;)
yes I know,not to worry..I know i get both pieces
:-),no, desktop icons are off. :-),see the FAQ ;)
okay thx thats fine,as I say I usually prefer it ;-0,I mean usually prefer them off ;-)..I like clean uncluttered desktop ;-0
it should be pretty straight forward,install the linux-restricted-modules package for your kernel (apt-cache search linux restricted, and take your pick),then install nvidia-glx,then dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xfree86
thx..it is just found ML post,heh yup..way ahead of ya,heh afterall were talking opengl man!! lol,this is my life yer talking practically ;-00
UNKNOWN,just run the cd and then alt-f2 to get to the shell
I tried chroot but I wasn't sure what path togive it
mount your disk wherever you want :),(you don't strictly need chroot though),Qt is Free Software. do *not* make that mistake please.,the released Qt code is GPL.,the released code doesn't include windows bits.,if you want to port it, that's up to you.,unless you port it to windows.
and gtk requires none of that..hence why gnome is so popular and why I use it specifically
yes, and it's called update-notifier...,if you're running hoary, install it now
im using warty :(
don't mix repos!
you have mail wrt archive uploads...
is it urgent?
urgent question is 'is cron.daily not running, then?"
err, yes, it was sorry.. must have done that post-release... undone
thanks muchly.  we,that'll get kde into universe better for some people...


isn't ubuntu a gnome based distro? 
yeah, but 'universe is big',we don't stop you from installing universe packages, we just don't do support (security fixes) for universe.
fair enough. getting around the terminology, "universe packages" would be stuff from Debian itself?
universe == the rest of debian/main at this point.  about 97-98% built successfully
ok, thanks. terminology got a bit confusing, maybe a wiki page for it might be good (for the non-Debian among us)


anyone ? ,do you think if i threaten this ubuntu install with a reinstall to fedora or somthing equally as terrible it will be scare ? ,scared even 
sorry, bit confused about what your problem is ...,not exactly a question for #ubuntu,but you could look at http://packages.debian.org/ or http://packages.qa.debian.org/
hey.,just sent you a email on the network situation here.,we woke up a giant and he wants to give us more bandwidth.
oh?
yeah, we might be getting some extra gige connections for the mirrors,and pull them around the packetshaper


one thought I had but never got to discuss last night (insert something about alcohol impaired attention spans) was the menu systems
right, so, you can do customish stuff to the gnome menus,but it needs a lot of love,patch to gnome-settings-daemon, basically.,to use libpbbuttonsd,echo blahblah >> /etc/modules
lo MacPlusG3, see you've finally made it then.. *grin*
yeah... hit some bugs during install :),there's the prism54 stuff - it's a binary firmware that's loaded to the device - but i view this as better than firmware-on-flash as it means i can actually update it :)
yeah... but finding a laptop with prism54 = pain in the arse or expensive
can always use pc-card,that's what i do
yeah I know.. hrm.. oh well.. spose that might be the way I go
which means you get dem blinken lights!,good afternoon
That's my synaptics touchpad working fine. I bet that could be done automatically though. *bitch, bitch*
file a bug?
I think I shall. Fun!
aha, i have the way-to-fast problem with a ps2 mouse
I don't think that's the same problem. I get the same thing on Debian if I just configure the touchpad as a generic PS/2 mouse.
it works for more PDFs than gpdf does
Isn't gpdf based on xpdf?
sort of, but the rendering is different, it doesn't do as many embedded fonts
332 requests currently being processed, 18 idle workers,heh,only doing like 40mbps now though.where you d/ling from?
BT.hmmm and what does your wife think..and has she been die hard M$ fan perse ?,so does it do automount and what browser plugins come ready to rock..( not a 'biggie' but its nice ),heh,so overall your wife seemed impressed at first glance ?..im looking fwd to gnome2.8 ;-00!!
shes used to gnome 2.4/2.6, so it wasn't a huge diff,the newer evolution was the biggest thing


Detailed Info: 'From ~5:30 to 7:30 pm tonight we experienced intermittent,+network problems at the border. NTS Engineers determined the Packeteer had,+load-handling problems when a ?slash-dot? targeted EECSI Web Server began,+generating over 80% of the internet traffic leaving the University. The problem+is resolved.  Please contact 1-HELP (612-301-4357) for questions or concerns.',yeah,i'll probally compile one up locally, but i dont know if i want to figure out the redistribution issues
I agree. Nice.
yes,at least mine is
give me a sec; I will throw up a mirror
just set one up and then add the info to the wiki or harass a canonical person in here,im just a user. :),its *slow*


anyone ? ,do you think if i threaten this ubuntu install with a reinstall to fedora or somthing equally as terrible it will be scare ? ,scared even 
exactly what error are you getting?,the official answer to that is 'dpkg --configure cacti' and answer the questions....how comfortable are you hacking around on packages?
i would prefer to just remove the package :) but if you would like me to fiddle around i would be more than happy to 
step 1 is vi /var/lib/dpkg/info/cacti.postrm and add -x to the #!/bin/sh, to see where the exit 10 comes from..did you edit the file?,uh, givien that you're trying to nuke it, and never really finished the install, and looking at the prerm...
erm... i seem to have fixe dit with ,apt-get -f install :) 
it's just trying to muck about with things that debconf is going to remove momentarily anyway...
erm..., can you see anywhere in there that might have that issue ? ,i've reinstalled and now im abnout to try remove :) ,attempting to reconfigure now :) 


marillat is a mong,he put x11 as the default output in mplayer,well, sdl,it depends on sdl anyway,sdl automagically figures out xv/x11/yourmother
lol
my fiance got sick of me playing with it.. she's not that impressed because she's already using debian unstable
sweet ;-)),100x would seem to be a slight exageration <G>
if I didn't make it crazy, some idiot would beleive me
ROFL
what do you actually want to do
well..i'm trying to install theut2k4 retail via a .sh script included on the CD,but..its written FOR gtk1 not gtk2 that gnome2.8 comes with.,thus the problem LOL..they made it for gtk1 compat it seems..so i'm being told to extract .sh file and run it another way,sigh I might just as well use the textual installer and forget it LOL,they are talking about supporting GTK2 'next time' <G>,sweet thx 
Basically I just want to know if there's a place for additional software compiled for Ubuntu. I'm specifically interested in Gossip.
just grab the debian package from universe :)
and whomever said, disable root, made a sane decision. i tried pushing that before, and was shot down by "SELinux will fix that"
i totally agree with you :) ubuntu gets it with that :)
what are the goals of ubuntu, is it a community driven distro or a for profit (ala redhat, suse) distro ?
largely community driven, but sponsored (and initiated) by a for-profit company
How does the plug-in-a-mouse-and-have-it-just-work thing work? Is it just through /dev/input/mice?
yup
Well, it sort of worked automatically, but like a PS/2 mouse, instead of a touchpad. Tap-to-click didn't work, and neither did finger-scrolling. Oh, and it moved too fast to control properly.


Metratron == Voice of God, yeah?
the story goes that Enoch got taken directly into heaven without dying (per Genesis), and became some kind of lieutenant of God called the Metatron
good good.,that is also true.


can I ugrade from woody to ubuntu directly?
you can, but there are rough edges.,i.e. hotplugging won't work unless you add yourself to groups
pffft, I knew who you were.. *grin*
haha. so those boxes would be mighty handy now :P
heh.. soon soon,I can probably do so on the weekend sometime..


im interested in automated installs too,we should compare notes about needs over email sometime
We currently have a Fedora kickstart setup and I'm fed up with Fedora ;),But I love kickstart, so I sort of don't want to go anywhere near FAI if we were to switch to Debian.,And Debian poses the dreaded stable/unstable dilemma ;)
i've got a hacked version of autoinstall i use with woody, im going to start investigating how to make d-i do what i want as soon as i get a chance,the hard part is getting 'network', most likely I'll break down and go back to using dhcp.,aside from that, then come up with a way to acquire debconf answers given a machine name,most likely using a stacked debconf db if possible,nght


dono if cdebconf does those yet.,might have to come up with a way that copies them into cdebconf, but then doesn't copy them locally at base-config
you done a decent bit of hacking w/ debconf then?
dono, ive not tought about it much,not really, i've used stacked databases though.


Ok, can everyone test some speeds? http://phoenix.lhup.edu/~choudesh/mirror/ubuntu/warty-i386.iso
SLooooooow,13k/s now
what connection you on?


I have no idea.,Ask them.,Yeah.
actually, its ok to redistribute with the clickthrough license, i've seen debs that someone made up that sun was ok with,so what i usually do is download them and strip the license out for local use.
just imaged the HD.
Images are evil.,BadBadBadBadBad ;)
I want to know how good UB works with MPICH.
:)
yeah, my 1mbps dsl is going nuts too
over 50 kB/s in the first 10 seconds...,now over 60...
our mirror server here has been pegged at 350 connections,and pusing 50mbps or so,alltho we did get rateshaped at one point by the network people because we kept on breaking the network


hahahahaha,I was about to pull that link out
are the mirror servers bogged down?
I'm saturating my cable modem
Just the x86 iso or all the isos?
I downloaded the mini ISO, which was 4.5MB
I can throwing up the follow iso on a oc-24 backbone.,very.
for linux on macs befor. I often (on my old imac) had to boot to the firmware and force it to boot off the cd,i cant rember HOW i did that however. :P
sometimes holding down the option key during boot to get the graphical menu thing is easier,also I believe some systems require Command-Option-Shift-Delete rather than C
 yea. i had issues and never could get some of that stuff to work. Perhaps I was holding the key down too hard., i was sort of amazed tht Apple could have such a user 'friendly' os/gui - and the deeper stuff be very very odd/obscoure/weird. :P
booting powerpcs is often a bit of a black art, yes
is there a package listing somewhere?,all right,why did you guys wait for the next beta to switch to x.org,what do you mean full release? 6.7 has been available for half a year, and 6.8 for just a little, and a lot longer than gnome 2.8
we were hoping to include X.org, but this is our first release, and there was a lot of other work to do :-),most of the benefits of X.org will arrive on the same timeline as our next release, so it was not a huge loss,it will probably be easily installable at some stage, but not just yet :),most of our developer tools are in the SupportedSeed,we need to keep the number of seeds down for simplicity ;),they're in SupportedSeed
you aussie or something?.is is true that the toilets flush backwards?


is this the torrent to use to download ubuntu: http://archive.ubuntu.com/cdimage/releases/warty/preview/warty-i386.iso.torrent ?
yep.what do you mean by "install to"?.do you mean mounting a previously created /home partition or something?,if you're talking about the / partition, it must be formatted first
hda: boot hdb:ntfs hdc:reiserfs hdd:swap,i want to install to hdc without formating it so i can keep my /home directory intact
correct,aptitude install '~tubuntu-desktop'
thanks
we deliberately aren't documenting it too heavily because it's in a lot of flux at the moment and may well break your system,in particular, a dist-upgrade today will fail horribly (see the topic)
I'm filing a bug. Should I tick the "People who can see the Warty Warthog bugs" box?
nah,sorry that'sconfusing
Ok then. Should I file a bug on that too? :P
i'll make sure that's fixed, thanks,it does run hald by default,difficult decision regarding PDF support and searching and stuff,gpdf for hoary, i'm sure :),it is, but gpdf uses a different rendering pipeline,universe is pretty much everything in debian's main that is not in our main,some stuff does not build correctly
Ah. What I was just looking for would probably be included in contrib.


in the wiki there are descriptions of the 'seeds',those are the supported packages,as to the 'universe' packages, i would just use apt-cache search,otherwise, dont think theres an online search yet,hey fabbione ,happy release day
thanks :-)
should know, my guess is that cross-platform-stuff aint working yet, as usual.
no, not yet..,it reconfigure X and load teh nvidia module properly,they are like the nvidia packages in debian. + they have the simple config script to enable/disable the nvidia binary driver,yes it preseed debconf and rebuild the config,no s/nv/nvidia/ or strange stuff,well it's harmless
what optimizations where used building ubunu? (686?)
-O9 -funroll-loops -march=superhicas
thanks scheew,thanks scheeb,schweeb.So when is gnome going to have an apple like volume control?,e.g. click one half volume. second click quater volume and third is off.
put your mouse over the speaker and scroll the wheel.,when apple can match that,they will have funally got rid of that retarded mouse
nice tip


ok I got this from the linux distro Yoper forums,,here are the instructions step by step: http://www.yoper.com/forum2/index.php?showtopic=1563&st=0&
you just share a directory
i was talking with one of the maintainers at one point,I'd like to see the multi-arch spec implemented.,In fact I'd give money to see it implemented. ;)
it's something we are investigating
where has this dist been hiding at,hehe
you don't want to enable your root account either, btw. leave it as it is for a while :)
the machine I installed on is non-routable and locked down by router access list,can I add normal debian sources ? so I can install unstable packages
no, just uncomment the 'universe' lines and use those - most of debian is available, albeit unsupported
who writes this dist
it's based on debian, the first release was wholly developed by employees of canonical
never heard of that corporation.is it non-profit ?
canonical isn't, no
so the 'gold' version will cost ?
no,see ubuntulinux.org and canonical.com
incorporated in isle of man , that doesnt look too positive .. corporate tax evasion shelter =]  heh,just a joke .. everything looks awsome , gnome even has extensions for firebird to open links , very nice
you don't add debian sources,just uncomment the ones in sources.list
sorry I misunderstood before , I found it
we have a supported set of packages, and 'universe'
then apt-get'ing should work right ?
sure, in most cases
I run unstable debian .. works fine , I just tried to apt-get install <name> and it failed
what's not working for you?
apt-get install <any_package_name>
what are you trying to install, and what happens? (paste).which lines are uncommented in your sources.list?
you told me to uncomment the universe lines
okay, and did you apt-get update?
yessir I did
okay, so mdz has verified that kdebase-bin was not built in universe, so those packages are unavailable
ok well , thats real lame 
so that doesn't mean the distro is lame, it just means that part of our unsupported set is not working,that's totally fixable too, by the way
I dont feel like hacking shit to work .. mdk is lame++ and works better than this,so does gentoo
you don't need to hack shit,you're trying to use an unsupported package that happens to be broken,if you could file a bug on that, we should be able to fix it
it works fine in regular debian and debian unstable
sure - this is not regular debian :),yes, gnome 2.8 is supported, but kde is not supported,in many cases, packages 'just work' from universe,in this case, you've found one that doesn't -> that can be fixed, hwoever
wheres the bug/development servers ..,how bigs the development team
34 employees of canonical, about half working directly on the distro
if its released for free, I dont see the incentive for full-time corp. development.the team is made up from various industry people right ? people from gnome/project etc .. its not a physical building with 34 actual employees coding right ?.dev chan ?
sorry?
is there a development chan on freenode
this is it.,for the time being, we may split off developer discussion later.
Ive never made packages before , is it easy ?
hrm, sometimes,we have nautilus-cd-burner, which is integrated into the file manager
and blam,it seems to have a "circular dep" if you will
I was able to install/build mono packages from sid without any problems.  You need to have mcs to build mcs which is kind of a pain, but I just fetched that from unstable,ayt.I'm looking for the blam source package so I can build an updated one, do you have it handy?
ew. synaptic sucks.
heretic. Synaptic is rad.
um, no.,you lose.
I know for a fact I never lose.,synaptic plans to add a wizard for that
bingo
More mirrors and cut public access to the main archive? :).http://ftp.acc.umu.se/mirror/ubuntu/dists/warty/main/installer-i386/current/images/netboot/ ?
yes please
Hmm.. How large?
cool
You want me to sync so that it is run just after it is updated, it is cron, so I'd need a time of day?
cron.daily runs at 3 and 33 minutes past the hour, usually takes a few minutes
this ought to be ok then? 10,40 * * * * /var/conf/ftp-deb/bin/ubuntu.or should I add another 5 minutes, just to be sure?
sounds fine
Ok, let me know if you want it updated or so. I don't have the space currently for all those cdimages though.,Oh, and feel free to point dns records there if you want. :)
not something I can do,(that's elmo's bailiwick)
ACK
not yet, kickstart-a-like is a Hoary goal
Ok, in brief, what I care about is selection of packages in classes/netgroups/etc and a postinst.pl or equivalent for all the local modifications. Well, besides a 0-question installation.,kickstart? is that the redhat or mandrake version? I'm only familiar with fai, jumpstart, nim and roboinst. :)
I think kickstart's a RHism
Ok, so what are you guys going to call it? ;)
well, we'll be importing debconf preseeding from sarge, for a start
We might kludge ubuntu into our fai install anyway, I mean, we did that for pure64 and the upside of ubuntu is real security upgrades..
the kickstart stuff will I think be some kind of automated translation from literal Kickstart files, which will help people with big RH/etc. deployments to integrate Ubuntu relatively seamlessly
Ah, ok. I've never had any experience with kickstar.,Neither does AIX, in my experience.
maybe my memory's faulty; I'm sure it did when I used to work with it
Well, there have been lots of changes since really old AIX, these days it is mostly a fairly normal unix, with a few quirks.
maybe I'm thinking OpenBSD then, dunno,bet the linker's still mad :-)
Yes, that's the primary quirk I was thinking of. :),I reacted because this isn't the first time I've seen a reference to "AIX-style randomized pids", but I've never actually seen it on AIX. :)
TBH I have no particular inclination to go back to AIX to find out ... :-),current versions of the installer ask for the keymap,the preview didn't
I just installed today's current amd64 cdimage and didn't get a question, just for language and location.
definitely /daily/current/?,that's a bug then, please send /var/log/syslog from the installer
the apt cdrom source said 2004-10-08 (in some date format)
/var/log/debian-installer/syslog if you've already got the system running
where do you want it? an http source right now?.or in a mail/bug somewhere?
attached to a new bug would be ideal
ok,there you go, enjoy!
the kernel's been updated somewhat since the preview, yes; see the warty-changes list
thanks, I'll see if I get time to check that on ravel, hopefully noone will be using it for anything important when I get time..damn, I'm sorry, how can I tag that bug unreproducable by the submitter?
hm, which one?
keyboard layout selection. I just updated the bug. Oh, well. What module do you want installer kernel bug in?
debian-installer by default, more specific if you know
mptfusion scsi write errors on amd64, failing to write stuff to disk
sounds more like the real kernel to me, so 'linux'
ACK
the belt-and-braces approach with tar and nc is about the best I can think of
ah, nc is available?,thank you again, now that it is working, now I can make a backup of the installed stuff before wiping it with an install. :)
I noticed that too and mentioned it to elmo, should be fixed now,rsync lacks virtual hosting :(
Ah, thanks,btw, sorry about the double mail, I just thought of it after sending the mail.
care to comment on what you meant by "interesting KDE stuff on the way" in the OSNews interview? :)
soon, soon :)
okay, patience is a virtue, yeah, yeah.are you also the maintainer for evo-exchange 2.0 for plain ol' debian?.mxpxpod I was away.  What's the question re: evo-exchange escape fixes?.were you asking about evo-exchange patches?
i don't think so, but someone was asking if i was asking about asking you
I think mxpxpod was referring to the patches from "deb http://www.fmepnet.org/debian/ main main" that I use.
oh, for openldap and stuff, or...?
actually, just to be able to login to and use the exchange server at all..has Canonical given any thought to being the first company to support a handheld-based linux?
no, not bootsplash.,we'll have something seriously sweet for Hoary (see the wiki for details)
thanks, I'll check it out,can you put the evolution-exchange .deb packages jbailey built for standard debian in your repository?  it keeps failing to get into incoming
jbailey has been uploading my packages,#g-d instead :),there is no fix, it was intended :-),the new menu system will be patched and fixed later
Oh.  Okay....what are you running on yours?
erm, pocket pc 2002 or something, haven't got a serial cable yet.
Oh, my!
not any more :)
could you provide a URL for some info on ubuntu-love?
heh, not yet, going to announce/webpageise today
okay, thanks.  I'll keep a look-out for it..usplash repos are available this week, is that right?
no idea.
no comment?.did you ever look at my patch for openoffice.org2-debian-files that I pointed out?
nup
okay.  The package was fixed, but I think the maintainer missed something.
because you didn't file the bug about it
I think it's due in the kernel sometime soon.  Am I right cafuego?.are we going to get to see any candidates for the new website design?.was that answer to my question?
yeas
what happened to beagle?
nothing
it was supposed to be available within the past few days
but nothing happened :),it will be automatically run in the session
oh, hmm.  Okay..was it using recovery mode you were advising against earlier, or enable the root account?
enabling the root account
Thanks, just wanted to clarify.
what's your problem with polypaudio?
#define MAX_CONNECTIONS 10
...,boggle :)
/var/log/messagesL protocol-esound.c: Warning! Too many connections (10), dropping incoming connections
c'mon, more than ten clients?
I get that message simply on startup,you don't honestly think I'm running several audio clients....I had to leave shortly after our "10 clients" discussion.  Any new developments?
not wrt that yet
okay.  I'll try to help.  If there's anything i can do, let me know..are there any serious negative effects of re-enabling iso-8859-1 locale?
everyone will laugh at you :|.why do you want to?
I get errors using xfig with it
that's a bug!,that should be fixed :)
okay...,you rock


How do I get nvidia working?.If I change my sources to sid and do apt-get update/upgrade will I be running a standard sid system? Or is that not a good idea?
"standard sid" is an interesting concept, but sure.
thanks.
nvidia drivers are in the restricted repository
do you know if kernel source is installed by default?  If so I can compile the nvidia drivers myself.


if one wants to, could you run a 2.4 vanilla custom kernel instead of the provided 2.6?
alot of stuff in the distro depends on udev,me neither,we are supposed to revert bad patches and stuff I guess
so you're a gentoo kernel developper also working on ubuntu now?  that's pretty neat, what's brought you to the project if I could ask?
i love gnome, gnome oriented distro.. so i installed it, and it rocked.
Hello all,ANyone tried this Ubunto on AMD64 based machines yet? - Been trying to test out all the 64bit disrtos on my laptop.
yes
 of course most of my issues with amd64 are lated to my Emachine laptop 6811
I'm not sure if it has been tried on an amd64 laptop; it works quite well on desktops
 yea. Ive had decent luck with Gentoo and its Emachine kernel.
what's different about the Emachine kernel?
nice and solid release on ubuntu,except for wireless networking,had to add the config manually,gonna be a bi*t*h to do this each time i boot,also why no icons on my desktop,why no icons on desktop.anyone?
hold on, going to write a faq entry,basically, it's all available in the computer menu,and whenever you're working on stuff, you can't see the desktop anyway :)
Is AMD64 port of Ubuntu based on debian-amd64?
no, it is based on unstable
Eh, but there's no AMD64 architecture in Sid...?
right, we based it on the source code in unstable and made fixes for amd64 as needed
Was there some problem with http://www.debian.org/ports/amd64/ ? (95% complete in their own words.).Or was it easy to just start from the scratch?
most of what the debian-amd64 project provided was build infrastructure, package repository, etc.,we have our own infrastructure for that
nice and solid release on ubuntu,except for wireless networking
what went wrong?
network-admin just locked on me would not work on dhcp or manually
#1069?
???
https://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1069.same bug?
does someone have a SS of the reorganized menu?
http://osdir.com/screenshots/index.php?directory=gnome2.8
thanks,that layout rawks!!
ya
hazzah's are in order!
just missing the file chooser bookmarks =] 
oh well :),maybe they'll update it ;)


sounds like you just don't know what you're doing,"doesn't support my burners by default"
10 years running linux,make whatever excuses you want
details are key,sorry to be a dick, but you need to calm down, and reasonably go through this, because what you are doing is on the brink of trolling... if not actually trolling
got it in 20 minutes on this cable .. its 5Mb/sec
well, I'm doing a netinstall


debian*,the mono packages in universe seem broken
it is :).are you doing just mono? or monodevelop (et al) as well?
right now im shooting to get mono working + muine
cool,put it in the oven, should warm it up a bit :)
i love you too
try nolapic
with nolapic, the button just makes X flash for a second,what is nolapic btw


i know you all have a grub.conf could someone please let me see theirs
not all have a grub.conf... ppc users don't ;).are you using esd?
yeah 
which libesd are you using? libesd0 or libesd-alsa0?
i get sound when i plug my speakers into the onboard card not the SB-Live :(
no clue,sounds like it detected the on-board first
libesd0.like ubuntu?
of course :)
cubbies gonna get the WC?


sup all,how do I install packages
if you like the command line, try 'aptitude search <regex>' and 'aptitude install <package>',if you prefer a graphical interface, you may want to try Computer->System Configuration->Synaptic,correct, they are spread out,this was it, until today when it became more general,well-behaved software is easier to package than ill, and simple software easier than complex, generally,it ranges from just dropping files in the right places, to robustly handling database conversions and the like
ah
several people have said that it subjectively seems fast; perhaps because of 2.6 by default (compared to Debian), newer versions of some software, etc.,I have a laptop here that I use for ubuntu install testing.  it has a DVD burner attached.  I install ubuntu, boot it up, play music, and burn DVDs,so if it isn't working for you, it's a bug
my ass,mdk and debian work out of the box .. this is jacked


yea,0_o,ok well,/dev/name works,/dev/hda /dev/hdd (cd burner hda , dvd burner hdd),problem is .. no graphical cd burning apps , support that bullshit,so .. hrm , gotta fix it somehow,k3b is the best burning app Ive seen so far,going to add queue support for it,I prefer gnome , but kde has some real good apps too
ditto that,one of my favs is that kde modeler based on POV...very interesting,better hardware detect..non anal install and targeted to be 'easy to use' out of the box for most things..and usually non-RTFM community meaning we're usually nicer,imo of course ;-),oh and we have udev and project utopia and gnome2.8 <G>...that about wraps it up LOL
its not 100% functional .. gnome 2.8 I mean , I remember alot of bugs when I ran it the first time
shrug i've encountered zero show stoppers,the typical issue with gnome panel being a little weird after first reboot...none beyond that
i installed ubuntu on an extra /dev/hdd but i didnt want it writing over my grub bootloader i already have on the MBR so i was going to edit my grub.conf could anyone post their grub.conf?
don't have a convenient i386 box right now, but if it helps, the Ubuntu installer detects entries in your existing grub configuration and includes them in the one it writes out.can you really use root=LABEL=/ that way?,I'd like details of that in a bug report, it's supposed to,grub is flexible enough that you should be able to type in the details at its prompt and have it work, so it shouldn't be a disaster
well you see i have 3 hard drives on this box i tried to install this on the 3rd hard drive and when it asked for when it was to install the boot loader i told it the MBR which is on the master primary ide if i am correct
what I need is (a) what the other operating systems are (b) what 'os-prober' says when you run it at the command prompt from alt-f2 in the installer,like I say, though, a bugzilla report will stop me forgetting about it, and I'm the guy who needs to fix it :)
id be happy to file a bugzilla report as soon as i have fixed my situation
that might be it
i am also a but upset that it did not detect my extra drive where i have all my music :(,releasing so close to gnome 2.8 helped so much with people wanting to try gnome 2.8 ut not wanting to use one of the build tools :-),i did
requires 200 learned ham and 200 learned spam before the bayesian detector kicks in, as far as I remember
wow
I get about that in a morning ;),unlikely; it certainly won't be part of what the core team works on,hoary is only six months away, so we don't need to get into a backporting spaghetti nightmare,you can wait six months :)
xargs is weak. you should use -exec chmod g+s \{\} \;
er, no, why?
because xargs won't work right if any of your directory names have spaces.
'find /home/bryan -type d -print0 | xargs -0 chmod g+s', then
heh.,um, the Ubuntu port is called 'amd64',Red Hat calls it x86_64
uh-huh, but at a kernel/toolchain level it's still x86_64,we don't munge the toolchain at that kind of level
right. but we don't define any AMD64 stuff.
so why did you ask about __AMD64__ and AMD64? I assumed you asked that because RH had them!
No, I'm asking it because the fd.o xserver uses them and I had to add a check for __x86_64__ instead, and you guys call it AMD64, and not x86_65
no, we call the dpkg-level architecture amd64,dpkg architecture != kernel/toolchain architecture
ok, then.
so, there's both,but that must be an upstream gcc thing
aha. so the source is using caps, that'd be why.
cool
thanks for the help :)


can you do me a favor and smack daniels around a bit?
well, i suspect you're closer to him than i am
?.is he in .us again?
i'm .uk
ah. well, I suspect you'll see him again sooner than I will.,Sticking feathers up your but does not make you a chicken.
ah, you're keen on the astoundingly foolish shortcomings then? ;-)
I thought you backgrounded yourself? :)
i have a highly latent background process ;-)
heheheh.,no, see, the problem is that all of the distros that I use have *different* fatal flaws.,Debian rocks except that a lot of the developers are assholes and there are all sorts of political issues that prevent things from happening in a timely manner. eg XFree86 and/or KDE packages.
nod
Gentoo has that problem licked for the most part - the packages are all bleeding-edge and happy, except that I fucking hate waiting six hours for things to compile.,Fedora isn't that bad from an interface standpoint, and some of the tools are ok, except I *hate* RPM with a passion and the bloat really bothers me
according to lamont kdebase has built on i386 now, should be in the universe archive
Not quite the answer I'm looking for :)
what would you like to know?
As far as KDE goes, are we talking optional addon, stopgap until GNOME destroys KDE, or to-be-supported platform?.that's kind of what I gathered. Is it going to stay that way indefinitely, or are there greater plans that you're allowed to share?


Hello, does ubuntu offer network installation?
http://archive.ubuntulinux.org/ubuntu/dists/warty/main/installer-i386/netboot/, when it isn't quite so slashdotted
I quite dislike qtparted,well, for one thing, if you X out of it, it doesn't ask you if you want to commit,which got me not once, but twice,heh,mmm mono,hrm.when is mono expected to make it in to main?
next release,yep
anything good going on at oftc, or everyone asleep?


ok, quick questions:.1. does the ubuntu installer support xfs?
yes.,I don't think so, but I could be wrong....... have you ever downloaded something with bittorrent before?
I have, but it was a long time ago...
if you have the official bittorrent client stuff, you can then do 'btdownloadcurses.py --repsonsefile filename.torrent'
awesome... I didn't know what the client's command was called
no prob,you've got backups, right? :)
actually, no
heh. um, I'd recommend them. :)
backing up 15G of data isn't the easiest thing in the world...,hehe
good luck :),:),heheheheh.using the torrent?
no no... I have ubuntu installed... I'm just waiting on all the packages for ubuntu-desktop
oh, ok,wow, that was fast
yeah, it's going at 319kB/s
right on.,my cable internet at home gets faster than that, but it's still nice :)
I downloaded a 650 MB about a week ago and it took like 4 minutes (IIRC)
heh :).how long did the iso take, using bittorrent?
there are a bunch of virii going around the office right now, so that doesn't help my speeds :),can't remember
heh, fair enough,finish Coaster so that they can include it and people can stop bitching about Ubuntu not being able to burn CDs ;)
ok, quick questions:.1. does the ubuntu installer support xfs?,2. do I have to format the partitions I specify for the installer to use? (like /home).btw, how do I grab the iso's using bittorrent?
grab the .torrent
got it.really?
not soon
ohhhhhh, I see
its not a great idea if you ask me
they should put a new kernel option in... "Run ultra unstable code..."
you mean the slashdot effect?
I can't apt-get update
you can tell it to use the daemon iirc
what's your repo's address?.powerpc?,:P,haha, riiiight
start writing C like a real man
:P,I don't wanna
get an x86
:P.you have a ubuntu mono repo, right?,ping,ping.whassamatter?
zao > *
hehe.you listen to them?
of course.
good call :),now, I need to figure out how to set up sshd on os x,nevermind, I got it :)


unsupported packages not working in a preview release??? *gasp* what are we going to do??? ;-),hm. *unsupported*. *preview*. hm.
it's like having a boberz, but in #ubuntu :p
heheheheh,the nvidia drivers have always worked fine for me...
did you have to modify XF86Config-4 or is there an automated script like Kano has made for kanotix?
is there a groupinstall option? like apt-get groupinstall gnome ?,and it'll pull in depends and so on
you have metapackages, gnome is one of them (i think)
dude.,wtf is up with tycho
i have no idea -- apparently it's just solidlocking,happened earlier in the day, catastrophe had a look and it was solid-locked
wtf, dude. who's doing that?.btw, seen the load on gabe?
um, you tell me?
it was at 20 last I checked,:-/,might be more helpful,you'll note that I have converted tberman not only from bash to zsh, but also from FC2 to Ubuntu
impressive
Yeah, I rule. I sold him on zsh in about two minutes.
if only it was a two-minute job on you
I know, it was more like two years for me.,ping,hmmm. wonder if there's an updated patch for it then.,you whore. jabber.,dude..jabber?,bitch.,jabber!
i'm at mum's place.  on xp.
you're a bastard
the what now?
see Jabber.,I have spread your warty warthog to many of my coworkers.
i ended up with a steak pizza,cheese, onions, tomato sauce, basil,and a huge chunk of steak,um, radeon and nvidia both accelerate xrender (the main problem aiui is xaa)
well, no, the main problem is that the xaa shit sucks
'the main problem aiui is xaa'
but this is out of my league, I'm just parroting things that I hear from ajax and anholt
pass the pipe,/srv is love,we're using it on gabe
tberman just ran into this issue as well,REOPEN NOTFIXED
RESOLVED/DONTDOTHATTHEN
sounds like you just don't know what you're doing,"doesn't support my burners by default",if they're burners worth anything, then they're ATAPI,nothing needs to be "supported", they just speak it,troll.,as are supporting bugreports.is that in universe?.or main?,universe is unsupported,could add an unstable source to your list to get kdebase-bin
that's not generally a good idea, for the reasons outlined in the FAQ
I like to live dangerously ;),I live by my daily "apt-get update && apt-get upgrade" in sid
doing a network install?
yea, from the mini.iso
oh, good,would you mind sending an install report to the mailing list when it's done?  if you encounter any problem, we want to hear about those of course, but also if it works,users, that's where everyone is currently
you guys want any specific files generated by the installer included?
if you have problems, /var/log/debian-installer and /var/log/base-config.log
<3 netinstalls so much
you run servers without security updates?
personal servers, definitely,work servers, just started going to Sarge,man, you're quick on the bugzilla :p
:-)
was all over like all 4 bugreports I added in like 10 mins,finally posted that comment about the mini.iso netinstall to the mailing list
thanks,yes, gstreamer-properties came up on the mailing list already,because the dialog is unintuitive and shouldn't be necessary for users
yea... how bout setting it to alsa by default?
why?,ok, that's something else
most of us seem to be stuck with intel8x0 + ac97,which is why we suggested dmix ;)  it does software mixing,for me ^w closes each tab,then the window
that is the WORST
rules.
in warty as well?  I wasn't sure whether we fixed that before or after the warty release
ew. synaptic sucks.
we'll have some interesting other stuff for Hoary
Good.,Because seriously, synaptic is weak.
it's okay for a certain class of user. it doesn't deserve slanging, though.
it's definitely not usable for the most-commonly-used functions imho
for the majority of users, no
What is really required is something that does the bare minimum of 'apt-get update && apt-get upgrade',but in a pretty GUI with summaries and whatnot
we have some stuff planned for hoary
what kind of numbers are you guys seeing on downloads?
INSANE bittorrent stats
I downloaded the i386 ISO over bt,no, he meant - what's the GNOME version of 'karamba' / 'superkaramba',which would be gdesklets.wibbling?.mako, other canonical insiders: what's the deal with KDE?,go for it, piss off hp
thom took one of the xserves to the hosting place on the tube
oh?
thus the, "that's a fucking huge ipod" gag
heheheheh,the new G5 iMacs look much more like big iPods tho..heh. so have you been following the network-profile-switching stuff that spawned from daniels' "Lessons from XP" message?
(about 20% on -users are gmail)
really? wow, I would've thought it to be more....do you know if anybody has any packages of it for warty though?
thom is working on some
yeah, but I don't see a link to a repository. :)
working, as in not-finished :)
how about that epittance stuff from dobey? :)
i am, um, waiting to see what alex produces. ahem.
heh.,I hope you guys *crush* Novell,We need a *decent* competitor, y'know? ;).it's possible for a friend who can't get ubuntu to find his CDROM during install to tell the installer to use debs from the HD, right?
first number is total, second number is machines remaining to be ubuntised?.in the office?
yes.
did you get your cds yet?
I handed out almost half of them here at RH today. :)
what was the response to the packaging?
very impressed overall,(not just me, everyone)
good, good. :)
:),so - no, the numbers were: first part, number of CDs I started with, second part, number of CDs I still have
*oh*
Hey all -- Installing Ubuntu with PXE? Yes/no?
yes, can do, netboot images on the CD/ftp site
Thanks! [gets] .URL for where the netboot images are?,Thanks again


Hello all,ANyone tried this Ubunto on AMD64 based machines yet? - Been trying to test out all the 64bit disrtos on my laptop.
there have been quite a few successful installs so far :),it doesn't do ntfs resize
34,google the debian developer handbook
sorry for polling , I know about the handbook,yeah , my desktop seems MUCH quicker .. not just the mouse either 
no, it's not whiteglass,it's jimmac,unless I'm completely wrong and it changed.?
he said something about uber high load
wtf. I saw that on gabe, but ... tycho doesn't *do* anything
hehe. maybe net went down? :P
what are you doing in here, anyway? :)
gonna try the cd in the coming few days :)
nice :)
me going off to buy the computer that i'll install ubuntu on :P
heheheheheh,well, good luck with that
:P,can't be arsed with gen2 anymore :P,machine ordered. recieve on monday :)
nice
lol
:D
flatmate accidently deleted 12gbs of my music collection
DUDE
yer. there are workaround to stop it,but nothing to fix it,which is pretty lame
dude, don't encourage him.
well if the guys good who cares
how's rubidium coming along?
its on a break atm,moved into new flat last night :)
oh? how's that going?
nice nice :),its got erm, a blow up bed, a powerpuff girls floor matt, and a table for my laptop :P,i kind of need to furnish it i think :P
heh..when are you coming out here to visit, dude?
no idea, but i'm 100% certain that i'll make ols next year :P,rubydium is sweet btw. i have a stable version,i could write a pretty funky standard lib with it now :),its pretty dang 1337 :)
nice :)
i switched over to darcs btw :)
darcs? wtf for?
arch sux :),it works :P,i didn't have to read any docs, it just worked,freaked me out,i have a 2gb revlib on my laptop that only has 4gb of space
... so remove some shit from it.
i'm not my computers mum. i'm sick of admining stuff that can't just control itself
or - god forbid - buy a laptop with a larger-than-4g-hd :)
my linux part was tiny,oh btw. i'm on ubuntu on my laptop now at last :),no more windoze :>
congrats. :)
shame that default ubuntu is a *bitch* to install on this thing
you mean "back to linux"


I just finished installing ubuntu. Aside from the name, I'm in love :-),This is honestly the greatest distro I've ever tried. It's like debian but it actually works right out of the box.
thanks for the compliments,the dictionaries are missing, https://bugzilla.ubuntu.com/show_bug.cgi?id=1257
thank you,any idea what I need to download


:)
muine here, too. (Sid :-)
i rebuilt everything against warty
Aha..Was building NAnt easy?,Yep. (I had some problems.)
hey guys, running ubuntu ;),the mouse speed is cranked on this distro ;),hehehe,not horribly so, just noticibly so,the install is very nice though on Ubuntu, best install I've seen for a Debian based distro,picked up all my hardware,I think the name is pretty cool 
wow thats wonderful..look fwd to it with zest now .heh..,seems doubtful long as 2.6.x is used
has anyone successfully installed ubuntu on VMware?,I'm having problems,i want to properly try it out before installing it on my hard disk
i doubt someone tested the installed in vmware
so not much chance for help then? It fails during the installation of the base system
i am sorry.. i don't have a licence for vmware to test and hounestly i don't plan to buy one
are some of the mirrors down atm?..in aptitude > tasks > selected "you" for update and its 'staling'..?,it did this last time I tried it as well I believe..maybe one of your servers indeed is down,maybe that explains my 'went south' install :-)
if you point your sources.list to one of our mirrors, it might go faster.,http://wiki.ubuntulinux.org/Archive
ok thanks ;-00,is this server also having trouble ?.i'm getting errors from gzip during apt-get update 


it's a combo of the WM and kernel
yes,that was my next question :)
;),I remember when I installed 2.5.6something and had X pointed at /dev/psaux and /dev/input/mice... much to my surprise, my mouse was moving literally twice as faste, cause of the ps2 module changes, heh
yeah, that tricked me out too,ubuntu decision
Q: Does ^A work as 'select all' for folks in Firefox when in the address bar or form fields?
nope
Know the fix offhand? :)
file bug, wait? :\,ah you're right. turn them off and it should work.
The emacs bindings? I'm trying to figure out where to turn them off
looking, i can't find it either... i was here before...
No root account by default?,:O
it's disabled, everything uses sudo :-),nup :),it's disabled, not no-password :),sudo to root requires the user password
you don't mind a bit of questioning right?,I am curious as to how stable the prerelease is as I have a friend who is being converted to Linux by me (I run sid) and this looks a little more user friendly out of the box.


cool,this is my first time in anything debian based for about 3 years,er, at least on my personal system, we have computer labs that use debian.
http://www.ubuntulinux.org/ubuntu/relationship/document_view,that page explains a bit about how we relate to Debian
thanks for that link, that clarifies the relationship a bit
sounds like it caused the screensaver to activate,no decss, no :-)
what is this fast mouse silliness,the acceleration is set higher
just turn down the mouse speed
not me, them.,see the user ml.nope, you need it?.youre non x86?,yeah.. the jit wasnt released yet I think.try installing mono-mint from debian unstable maybe?
how do I do that :/,wake up :(
linus has a ppc64 as the main devel box


including how to change it?
heh, okay :)
heh
wiki.ubuntu.com/ProposedReleaseNames (i think),the kernel binary packages have the .config :),not in the repo,use totem-xine
that's the plan,good. 2.x isn't finished.
there have been finished 2.x releases 5 times now...
I mean as a series..what's new in it?


woowee , sound works !,hehe,are the pointeres gnome specific or X or what,they look sweat,sweet rather,hehe,that is pretty cool
yes you can. by default nautilus doesnt use browser mode,in the computer menu, go to desktop preferences, and file management. you'll see something about a browser mode - that's what you need
what kinda mac you got
G3 ibook 700mhz
dont ya like os x ?
not really,I hate being shoved into a box by an OS - OSX and Windows both do that.
and that leaves me with Slackware, which is awesome because it doesn't fuck with me.,maybe it's up to 125 or so now.
so i'm not really unbiased
heheheheh.
you work at RH, right?
Yep :)
then you've probably heard of Specifix and Conary, huh? :)
yep :),Haven't tried their stuff out yet.
you might like it, it's above and beyond RPM
(actually, met up with those guys at OLS and had dinner with them. They're all really cool.)
ah, cool. yeah, i wish i could have been at OLS. i joined Specifix a bit too late, though. :)
Oh, you work with them?
yep
hey guys, running ubuntu ;),the mouse speed is cranked on this distro ;),hehehe
actually the mouse speed is handled by the kernel
hm, it's good bit faster than my gentoo with 2.6.8.1-ck7
are you using /dev/input/mice on gentoo in your X config?
yup
good,thanks, were glad to have you here to test it :),I'm also a gentoo dev, forums are in the works
hah, how many machines do you have? ;)
two, my dev box and my server.  Server never gets touched though
so are you just gonna develop for both?
right now (with a release pending) all my efforts are on ubuntu right now
but gave error that it was unable to and started aptitude,thats it ,startx says X not found as well,err I mean command not found,tom: OK one se c,hahah this bites..i'm talking to you via gaim in linspire,please someone RESCSUE me LFMAO,LOL,well this is on my  other halfs puter..so no I can't LOL,and I dont think I want to.I dont trust FC frankly
But you trust a day-old distribution released by a mostly nameless group of developers?  :),No, don't have time for that.  If you paste the exact error, someone may offer advice.,main is the function that a C program starts from.,You are compiling two pieces of code that both contain competing main() functions.  The linker doesn't know which one to use.
hmmm,question is why is it spewing this here in debian and not in fedora


well,this is pretty darn nice,but i have an issue, heh.
what's up?
nautilus isn't showing any desktop icons for me.
the desktop is clean :)
how do i fix that ? heh
hold on, I'm working on fixing your problem
ok
ok, I think you can go to gconf-editor and to go apps -> nautilus -> desktop -> *_icon_visible (click whatever you want to see)
i'll give that a shot,thanks for the help
np,how does linux run in terms of suspending and speedstep (or whatever it's called on macs)
on my gen ibook, it's flawless
yea, I had to change mine too, I thought GNOME defaulted to 12 hour clock?
ahh there we go,yes, this IS very well put together for a preview release.,and also running MY favorite DE. :),yes,im on it right now.,:),workin just dandy,my desktop has Syllable (another open source OS) on it. :),everything on this ibook is supported by linux.
Syllable is quite interesting
yes it is :)
some things about it I really like, others I don't... You get that with any OS though
that's very true. especially young ones.,you're all over the open source world aren't you
I try :),when you're a dev, you have to wait for the compiles anyway ;)
it sucks less these days, don't get me wrong,but it still sucks :),heh, that was unexpected,god dammit, xchat sucks my ass,every time I try to delete a word it closes the channel,weak
hah whois me next
totally rules..how is muine, btw?.can it handle a few thousand songs?,but jbailey wants to throw money at them anyway :).so when are you going to update to some newer mono and monodevelop builds?
whats wrong with the ones now?
tberman says that 0.5.1 is much better than 0.5
what could tberman possibly know? :P
he also wants to know how you got 0.5 to work with 1.0.1
yes, I know
well, ok then :),"well if he knows, where are the packages?" -tberman


I just finished installing ubuntu. Aside from the name, I'm in love :-),This is honestly the greatest distro I've ever tried. It's like debian but it actually works right out of the box.
cool!
another nice thing is that the menus are simple to use
no crap! :),i mean, there isn't any crap,. hrm ;),i think they are available in universe
ok
actually, msttcorefonts is not there, i'll check why,you can add debian's contrib/non-free lines, they work reasonably well (not a lot of dependency issues tehre... ;),we're looking at including mono in our next release,tseng has done some bleeding edge mono packages for warty too.didn't want the amd64 version?
I tried it out but it had gnome 2.72 and some other stuff
;)
what
sun at night.
do you know of any other decent weather applet so I can know whether or not its raining without having to take my eyes off of the screen for more than half a second?
if it's raining, it will show rain
yeah, but I mean one besides the one gnome comes with


but gave error that it was unable to and started aptitude,thats it ,startx says X not found as well,err I mean command not found,tom: OK one se c,hahah this bites..i'm talking to you via gaim in linspire,please someone RESCSUE me LFMAO,LOL,well this is on my  other halfs puter..so no I can't LOL,and I dont think I want to.I dont trust FC frankly
Debian's better? ;)
yes it is
see, zack and I both work for red hat :)
you kidding right,agreed
the graphical boot stuff is way better than the other things I've seen in other distros, thanks to using X instead of stupid framebuffer hacks
wow..I presume you have them running on separate partitions ? <G>
yeah.
I prefer to IAR instead of CAW,heh.slack is okay minus nonexistant package management ..unless they are adopting swaret or slapt-get ?


what is the command to restart the installation process after the first reboot?
startx should get you in that or sudo gdm ( assuming your not having same problems I did)
Have you considered including ndiswrapper?
we may include it in restricted or universe some time
what's the "correct" way to install/set up the NVIDIA drivers in ubuntu?.apt-get install the restricted kernel modules, and then add the nvidia stuff to your config?  or is there some kind of X config program I should be using?
install the linux-restriced and nvidia-glx,dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xfree86,the first question will ask you about which driver you want to use.. select nvidia and so on...
gotcha, done it a thousand times, just wanted the "ubuntu" way
all the other questions should be pre-answered with proper values,it will be simpler later..
understood,kinda like the first few times in debian where you compile the kernel by hand, and then you find out about make-kpkg... better to do it the distro-preferred way ;)
ehehe there is no need to compile the driver..,even if you still get the nvidia-kernel-source,the binary kernel module is precompiled (if you use a standard kernel)
I mean the kernel in general,I do a lot with User Mode Linux, so I use a lot of patches,in fact, I'm IRCing from a UML
ehhe nice :-),i have to assume that people don't always know stuff, when i am answering here.. at least in the beggining when i will picture who is who ;)
there's an extension,No New Window On Double Click
where do i find that extension?
just a sec
file a wishlist bug with all the reference,correct
http://update.mozilla.org/extensions/moreinfo.php?id=150,I use that for my employees at work (we use tbird now! - way better than outlook)
thanks. checking nwo.in which .mozilla-thunderbird directory the plugin has to be installed?
I just import the xpi *shrug*
ah ok,ok.. got the trick thanks :-)
hey guys, running ubuntu ;)
yay! :),stick in a usb storage device :)
yea, I'm getting some stuff to plug in now,is the gtk theme based on indubstrial? (I am running Indubstrial with GNOME 2.6 on my Gentoo install).
yeah, just with added brown ;),the first user has full sudo access
ah, ok,what's the relationship with sid anyways? I know it says on the webpage, but I mean do you guys branch off sid?  I noticed some of the packages have a -ubuntu suffix.
we branch off sid, yes,we freeze, fix and push :),no, difficult legal issues,by day, npmccallum works on ubuntu, by night, he waits for gentoo builds to finish!
pbthh ;),where do you work anyways?  It doesn't seem like you work for a linux related company (at least you never mention it on planetgnome)
been working for canonical for ~6 months now :),previously i did independent consulting, worked for isps, etc.
good job with GNOME 2.8 as well
yeah, mostly pretty sane last minute things,our release process is synced with gnome's :)
did you help get 2.8 into sarge?  I thought Jordi handled a lot of that...
2.8 won't be in sarge,but jordi was at our conference in oxford, we helped a bit with 2.8 in experimental:),it takes a long while to crack the key, and the gui doesn't provide *excellent* feedback during that process,we did ;),we... did ;)
sounds painfully fun ;)
at our two week conference in oxford, we bought a few difficult laptops,was lots of fun getting them working right ;),hrm,interesting.usb-storage?
but gave error that it was unable to and started aptitude,thats it ,startx says X not found as well,err I mean command not found,tom: OK one se c,hahah this bites..i'm talking to you via gaim in linspire,please someone RESCSUE me LFMAO,LOL,well this is on my  other halfs puter..so no I can't LOL,and I dont think I want to.I dont trust FC frankly
with what?
?
you don't trust FC. why?
with anything,its beta quality IMO,errors...
ah. yum issues then?
well zack..,trust me..i 'wanted' to trust FC,VERY much so,but I just dont,Do you trust fc to your workstations..
i'm not gonna disagree. FC is a rough ride. RHEL is *much* nicer, but... yeah.
true
i'm in QA, so... i have different priorities :)
ic,but yeah overall Ifind FC innovation to ge a good thing for linux,heheh gotcha,on both counts ;-)
yeah. both FC and debian have their strengths and astoundingly foolish shortcomings
heh indeed theydo,well kinda what did it for me was that last (I think) corba error with an app...i'd 'up2date'd and bam got hit with a corba error...Iwas told to reboot toclear it which it seemed to..but i left me with a cold impression to be very uncertain to trust for a workstation ENV>.maybe I'm wrong but that was my take on  things..was I wrong do you think ...<<
is this rawhide?,well it should be an option, i agree
mdk works better out of the box
mdk lacks a few too many packages for me
burning , sound , and pretty much everything needs CONFIGURED


doesn't matter but...did you guys put in synatpic as default UI to apt ?
we already are,if you are behind a proxy it may cause those problems
Hey..Ubuntu is based on Debian and therefor uses apt?
yes
I have the same problem with a scsi burner... a fix would be nice to find. it doesn't show up in nautilus-cd-burner or anything.
everyone hates SCSI burners now,yeah so I do, I mostly use command line though
lowest common denominator


Will Ubuntu include Flash.,(No, I don't want to troll here.)
macromedia does not allow redistribution of flash on linux, period.
Will it include http://swfdec.sf.net/ or http://gplflash.sf.net/ then?


worked okay with i386,might not be built on ppc yet
britney reckons it's broken for everyone,that may  be, but she's right
Was the smooth engine not included with Ubuntu?
no it is, it's Glider,they changed the name for the release
As far as I can tell, though, the engine (Smooth Engine) isn't installed to make Glider look right.  I'm getting a boxy, non-Glider-like look over here.,And I don't see libsmooth or libglider in /usr/lib/gtk-2.0/2.4.0/engines


are there any repos that should I add for getting your gnome-2.8 or is it in experimental?
it's in ubuntu by default
I see but I want it in my debian :), or maybe I need ubuntu for it. And can I upgrade somehow debian to ubuntu?
upgrading may be messy :)
okay one more thing until I switch to it. Will ubuntu have gnome always updated?
our stable releases wll have the latest gnome as soon as it's released,our development process will have gnome development stuff as soon as it's released :)
can you explain to me or can you point me to a document that tells what ubuntu has more/less than debian?
http://www.ubuntulinux.org/ubuntu/relationship/document_view,also see most of the docs in the ubuntu section
OK guys trying to 'startx' is giving me: usr/bin/X11/X..no such file or DIR,and I dont recall what package its part of .i'd think xfree86-common?,or base
does dpkg --configure -a say anything?.so how big is your partition?
65 GB
uhm, that's a development chan, no?
dunno,either way you'll prob. get help


so is gnome 2.8 all its cracked up to be?
it's kickass, punkass!,that's done for you ;)
sweet action...
gstreamer does, but we can't ship the right bits to make dvds work due to legal reasons,that is also difficult issue, legally :)
You need some waiver "if this is not illegal in your country, click here" :),so there is the perfect work around ;)
totem has only gstreamer or xine backends,i'd recommend installing totem-xine,dude.you've installed linux-restricted-... ?.what's that do?.tried the network places smb browsing in nautilus?,try hitting ctrl-l in the rhythmbox file selector and typing in smb://...
16Gigs o ram..thats crazy.  I just set up some thinclient at work using ltsp but my server is only a 2ghz with 1g o ram
a lot of people who like editplus like gedit,if you go into 'configuration editor' under applications > system tools,navigate to /apps/nautilus/desktop,you can turn them on again,but try for a while without them :),there were some posts on the list about it
are u refering to here: http://lists.ubuntu.com/archives/ubuntu-users/2004-September/thread.html,but not for ndiswrapper :(
ndiswrapper is totally unsupportable, dude,we might get it into restricted some time
how tight knit are you guys with gnome?
very :)
how are u guys able to ship free cds...doesnt it cost a few $$
yeah, only a few.
is there anyway to restart x without having to log back in?.is it up to a developer of an app to give it to you guys or do you just add them to universe when u see fit?
atm, universe is pretty much just debian main
ah ok, http://azureus.sourceforge.net/ these guys just have a pretty nice bittorrent client
check the build logs to see what's up
do you know why libxml++2.6 is not in the repos?
check the build losg,perhaps it wasn't in sid at the time we froze,late june,you might want to request a sync,of all the gnomemm packages, even
is there a reason smbmount is not available?
smbfs
ahhh..smbfs is a seperate package...doh :)
that's what i meant,just upgrade.,otherwise you wouldn't be testing potential upgrade bugs...
excellent thanks,i may be setting up ubuntu using ltsp sometime soon aswell,will do...i have fc2 running it right now..and would like to be rid of it.is there a way to tell if my order of cds have been shipped?.is there someone i can mail to make sure my order wasnt missed  or something?,nope all i see is: Please review and update the following information and then logout when finished. etc,shoSection "Extensions".so should i just assume all is well with the order and wait it out?.u around?
yeah
so is there someone i can mail to ask?
what's the question?
Hello All,A couple of quick question on ubuntu. I may be being a bit simple but I could not find the LiveCD version of ubuntu. The documentation refers to it but I can find the iso.,This is a dead linke - http://ftp.no-name-yet.com/cdimage/morphix/20040910/wartylive-v2.iso
on which page is that link?,the live CD is currently at http://people.no-name-yet.com/~mdz/ubuntu-live/,however, it has some known bugs
Does anyone know how I can change the GTK sorting order from A, B, C, a, b, c to A a, B b, C c/.?
I think your locale affects that.,I'm not sure of what part of your locale that decides sorting though. It could be LC_CTYPE...
Thanks.
Yes, LC_COLLATE as kl_ said.,I'm not using Ubuntu but adding LC_COLLATE=something to /etc/environment will probably do the trick.
OK guys trying to 'startx' is giving me: usr/bin/X11/X..no such file or DIR,and I dont recall what package its part of .i'd think xfree86-common?,or base
 you just installed X?
I am totally lost at thispoint ..no idea whats installed to tell yu the truthLOL
 if you just installed X. you need to logout/backin to get your PATH set right
ok, what's laptop-detect?
a little script that should detect if you are running on a laptop or not
that's it?
yes.,it is used in several bits to configure properly certain packages
ah, ok
like enabling antialiasing in fonts,it saves a few questions to the user at install time
The smooth engine was meant to be included by default, right?
yow, that's a great bug - could you please file that for us?
Sure thing.
dude, you are finding some nice bugs ;-),thanks
No problem.  Just having a look around my new distro of choice..Are you guys planning on shying away from Mono or including it, Muine, F-spot, Blam, etc.?
not sure, we'll see for our next release,oss being the default isn't a bug,using oss emulation is a bit more stable at the moment,everythign at the kernel level is alsa :),we will have a cooler add/remove app in Hoary
Really That is great to here.,That sounds awesome.  I keep getting more and more reasons to like Ubuntu.  Are you guys looking into NetworkManager and netapplet?  I had a really tough time getting wireless working today.
see HoaryHedgehog on the wiki :),we are very interested in NetworkManager
Cool.  Thanks.,Would you guys be interested in building a more robust community site?  Or are you wanting to direct support and discussion to the general GNOME community?  I've been considering working on a community site for a while - focusing on support, general info articles, package help, etc.
we're in the process ;),definitely want forums and stuff,but we're looking for some forum software that will work with our mailing lists,so if you konw anything that has an nntp backend...
I'll look around a bit.  I'd love to help out.
awesome, thanks!
I've been wanting to contribute to something like this for a while, but haven't seen a good opportunity.,Yeah, that's been bugging me.
yeah.do you think size 14 is a good default, for proportional fonts?
How are the X settings configured from the start.  Setting up Ubuntu on my friend's laptop today, I could only get 640x480 until I manually edited the refresh rates to match his SXGA screen.
did you install from the preview cd?,that might have been an annoying bug we fixed after the cd was done,try upgrading and running dpkg-reconfigure xserver-xfree86
Sounds good.  I'll test again with the final.  Otherwise, he was very happy with the switch from Fedora..How would someone go about getting a package/suggesting a package for inclusion in universe?
post to -users
By the way, that change has gone over really well with the people I've set up with Ubuntu so far..Who leads the Web site development for ubuntulinux.org?
not any one person, really - why?
I'd just like to learn how I could help out.  I'm not sure what I could/should do, but I have a lot of experience with PHP, XHTML, CSS, etc.
atm, i'm not sure; the site is built on plone, if you grok python and zope
Thanks for always stopping the KDE/GNOME stuff before it gets crazy.,Yeah.  That's hard to do though, without video..I'd like to test, too.  Are you guys including mono in Hoary?
potentially,it's all in universe atm, and will be for hoary too
Excellent.,I don't know if you've discussed this at all, but have you guys looked into J5's hal/cups integration.  I know it's still a bit RH specific, but with it pretty much all hardware would be halized in Hoary.,OK,Nice to see you.  I've been wondering all night what _exactly_ the "SVG aware artwork" assigned to Mark Shuttleworth on the Hoary Goals page is..Do you know what the SVG artwork on the Hoary goals page is?  Is it just the human icon theme?  Will it be different than the current one?.Do you know if the hoary kernel has inotify patched in?
it won't,hopefully next release
OK. Thanks.  Also along the lines of hardware "just working," are you guys changing netapplet at all?
netapplet, yes. not networkmanager.
Yeah, I heard of that decision.  Will netapplet be made into an actual applet and cleaned up, etc., though?
most likely, yes.
Excellent.  Thanks a lot.  Ubuntu has been wonderful so far.,Awesome, thanks..Has there been a sizable response?  The deadline is the 31st, right?
not a huge response (surprising, the website looks like monkey butt!), yes to the 31st
I might still make an entry.  I'm going to look into plone this weekend and such.  I've been planning on making a couple of ubuntu-related sites for a while, but was too swamped with classes..Is it legal to use the default GNOME icons for the ubuntu.com site?  Should I use the incomplete human icon theme instead?,OK.  Excellent..This is my first time looking at the plone docs, but it mentions that you can use a static page that isn't controlled by plone.  Would something like this be plausible/acceptable to make the home page look a little nicer?
nup ;)
nup is a negative, right?
nup == no :)
just making sure ;)
nothing
I heard it getting scarier and scarier code-wise and that you guys were wanting to stay away from it.  Is that not true?.Do you have any more information on the web design contest?  Are the entries posted anywhere?
nup, just the announce
Alright.  Well, my colleagues and I are going to give it a run this weekend..Speaking of great music players, do you know if you guys are going to package muine for hoary?,Awesome!  You've made my day/night wasted on irc..You here?.Is usplash going into hoary or hoary+1?
unclear atm.
Alright, thanks.
you need to help with development.
I'd love to, but I don't know C#.
so you'll have to wait
I understand.  I did not want to complain; I was just wondering if what I was experiencing was normal or if I had done something wrong.  Yes, I built it myself..Just to be sure, I can turn in an entry for the Web contest tomorrow, right?,Thanks..Have you guys considered including a tool or maybe modifying synaptic to allow for installing individual debs?  Or is that something you are generally wanting to discourage?
will do; good
Awesome; awesome.,IMHO, the ubuntu livecd should definitely let you do an install (in response to your blog).is usplash still planned for hoary?.meaning it might go in right after?  or that you guys have a few issues to work out before you can be sure?
the latter
Thanks,You here?  Just wanted to let you know that I have gtk-sharp-1.9.2 installed (from source) and the packages from universe are still working fine for me..Did you get my message about gtk# 1.9?.When are you guys going to announce the winner of the Web design contest?  Are you waiting for hoary?
soon dude, soon
Alright, I'm just anxious to see the new look.  My LUG is going to do a presentation about Ubuntu once hoary is released, so I've been watching it's development like mad..what do you mean by fully integrated ltsp?  Where can I get more information about that?
nickrud, chombee: https://wiki.ubuntu.com/ThinClientIntegration
thanks.  Did the hal patches to cups make it into breezy?
don't think so
OK.  I've been running breezy for a couple days here and I'm really impressed.  Nice to see improvments to gnome-app-install.  One thing I've been curious about: I participated/won in the web redesign contest and I'm wondering if you guys are planning on doing any more clean up on the website before breezy?  I'm planning on launching a spreadfirefox-esque site soonish.
ah, you may want to wait until you see the fridge,https://wiki.ubuntu.com/TheFridge,it's going to be a combination of news and spreadfirefox style advocacy stuff,TheFridge is launching very soon - when it's up, let me know if you want to join the editor team
Cool.  Thanks.  Is there a structure through which I can get more involved with improvement of ubuntu.com generally.  I have 3 years of plone experience.
hrm, not enormously at the moment. but if you mail henrik, he might know stuff you can help with.,henrik.omma@canonical.com
works quite nicely,several canonical staff use ubuntu on powerbooks
what do you mean?
Canonical Ltd. is the company who sponsors ubuntu development
ahh cool
which chipset in the dwl122?
its up
Anyone speaking German here?
i do
Some more publicity for Ubuntu in German: http://www.symlink.ch/article.pl?sid=04/09/16/1539251
=]  should show up in my rss in 10 minutes,rss reader*
gleom.de also wrote something: http://www.golem.de/0409/33601.html
yeah, i read golem's feed too ;)
er, perhaps the install should mention what protocol it expects to talk to the mirror by? I was planning on NFS, but this installer just doesn't say..,http, proceeding..does ubuntu require LVM?
no. Ubuntu supports install on LVM,that sounds pretty strange.which motherboard are you using? are they SATA disks?,hmmmmm,i wonder if that chipset is supported.. i will have to check on that,please file a bug and assign it to debian-installer,we will figure it out with the kernel guys :-),if you can please add info from lspci -v (if you happen to have the old linux installation there
